A Prophetic Scenario 1

00:00 -  In verse 22, I will make them one nation in the land and upon the mountains of Israel, and one kingdom shall be king to them all. All of this is yet future.
00:15 -  Verse 23, I will save them in the last portion of that verse out of all their dwelling places wherein they have sinned and will cleanse them. So shall they be my people, I will be their God.
00:25 -  24, and David my servant shall be king over them. They shall have one shepherd, they shall also walk in my judgments, observe my statutes and do them.
00:34 -  They shall dwell in the land that I have given unto Jacob, my servant, wherein your fathers have dwelt. They shall dwell therein even they and their children, their children's children, forever.
00:45 -  Here's that crowning word that shows that this is the final, permanent, enduring, millennial blessedness, and my servant David shall be their prince forever. Here's God honoring and fulfilling his covenant promise to Israel that someone who is a descendant
01:06 -  of David and who would be seated upon the throne of David would rule over Israel forever. Maybe we need to be reminded that that promise was stated in the very advent of Jesus' coming in birth.
01:23 -  In Luke chapter 1, the pronouncement made to Mary bears an echo of that same promise now fulfilled at the end of Ezekiel 37, where the angel came unto her in verse 28 and said, Hail thou that art highly favored, the Lord is with thee, blessed art thou among women,
01:46 -  and tells her about the child that shall be born in her, that his name shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be
02:07 -  no end. So the very first angelic pronouncement about the advent of Jesus has to do with his theocratic purpose, the reason for his coming, the prince that would rule over the house of Jacob forever,
02:26 -  but upon the throne of David. So that goes back to that this is the kingdom of God-promised Israel in keeping with the covenant promises of God, literal genealogy, a literal throne, a literal place, but once
02:48 -  it is established, it's established forever, and for that reason the few of the powers of darkness is all the greater, their loss is without remedy, once they lose their false and usurping place, it's never again altered, and so their last fury will be the greatest.
03:10 -  And so that these verses now come at the end of Ezekiel 37 shows again the same pattern of all the prophets, time of severe tribulation, devastation, desolation, ruin, out of it a restoration of a remnant, the return to the land, the putting of his spirit within them,
03:31 -  the forgiving of their sins, their coming to the awareness themselves with great remorse and recognition of their sins and the sins of their fathers, and then the theocratic rule coming to them and through them to the nations.
03:47 -  Verse 26, I will make a covenant of peace with them, it shall be an everlasting covenant with them, I will place them and multiply them and set my sanctuary in the midst of them forevermore. My tabernacle also shall be with them, yea I will be their God, they
04:04 -  shall be my people, and the heathen shall know that I the Lord do sanctify Israel when my sanctuary shall be in the midst of them forevermore. Not only the seat of government but the actual residence of the resurrected and ascended king out of a place in the earth
04:22 -  that the world despises. Isn't that remarkable? That the center of his world rule is not the United Nations or Geneva or New York City but the holy hill of Zion. It is another calculated offense against the sensibilities of men that would have submitted other locations as having
04:45 -  been superior. It's because it's a hill that God has chosen it. It's because it's the surprise that he prefers it, because that's the kind of God that he is, lowly and meek. So just to understand that the whole of 37, the death and resurrection is couched in this
05:06 -  whole theocratic glory that comes with the resurrection of that people and God's placement, his actual literal physical locus, his sanctuary, his tabernacle and dwelling place is with his people in that city. It's so easy to dismiss that or to spiritualize that but it's literal.
05:30 -  That's why all these could die not having received the promise but having embraced it seeing it fall off. That they knew that there would come a time when they would inherit the promise in actuality in the land that God had given in their resurrection and it
05:51 -  would be for them then an eternal inheritance and an unbroken and continuing blessedness. Every one of these categories violate and offend human consideration. It's utterly supernatural. Resurrection is the thing that men most stagger at. There's something about
06:11 -  resurrection that is a calculated offense to human sensibility. We can believe anything but not that God can raise from the dead and even when we believe we don't believe. It's just the way in which we dismiss it and yet it's the nub of the faith. Christ in him crucified
06:30 -  implies Christ crucified and risen and that was the great apocalyptic event that has already come into time and by it all of this is set in motion. The power that raises Israel through the word of the remnant church that is prophetic whose word is creative is that power. None
06:52 -  of this could take place if there had not first been the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. That is the great signal event in all time and history and if we make of that a commonplace and allow that to become trivialized we will have lost the faith and we're dangerously
07:12 -  close to that historically right now and I spoke about yesterday Easter bunnies and chocolate things and all the kinds of things that turn holy days into holidays. It's a calculated offense by the enemy to rob the church and the world of the most stunning event that
07:32 -  has ever taken place in human history, namely the intervention of God in time and place and the demonstration of the power of God against every force of darkness calculated for the death of his son to raise him from that death and bring him to a place of ascension
07:51 -  and glory and honor at the very throne of God and that's what Stephen saw. I see the heavens opened and Jesus at the right hand of power and that statement just drove men on the earth to a fury because it signaled to them that their tenure was finished. Something
08:11 -  had been established as very fact that was only a matter of time before the logic and the unfolding of it would finally undo all earthly kingdoms and bring to pass supernaturally from the throne of heaven the theocratic rule of God. I've been using that phrase liberally
08:31 -  assuming that everybody knows what that means. Theo, Theophilus is lover of God. Theology, the study of God. Theocracy, the government of God. And we need to cultivate this. Government, the word government has fallen into such low repute. I, what's the word, I chafe at the
09:01 -  word government. I despise it. I was a history teacher and in our American schools we call that social studies and I was required at times to teach government and I despised it. I don't like the mechanics of governments and something that when it's operated by
09:20 -  men so lends itself to corruption. But we must not allow the human concept of government to impinge upon divine government. It is something else altogether. It is the wisdom, the benevolence, the kindness, the goodness of God manifested and demonstrated and proclaimed and set forth
09:41 -  before the nations that there might live insanity, righteousness and peace. The millennial age, if your juices are not flowing you've not yet understood it. And I think for most of us we're dry mouthed. We know the phrase but we cannot conjure up an image of what this
10:03 -  glory is and the eternality of it. It goes on forever. And what a rejoicing, the trees clap their hands. The hills skip as lambs. Nature itself rejoices and is groaning and prevailing until now waiting for the manifestation of the sons of God, which is to say the conditions
10:30 -  that will eventuate in this millennial blessedness. We're living such a subnormal life only we've lived it so long that it seems normal. We're living beneath the glory of God. It's pathetic and it takes its toll. But its toll is so familiar to us that we expect it. We expect
10:53 -  the mental institutions to be crowded out. We expect our prisons to be bulging at the walls. We expect deformed, crippled, marred, psychologically beaten pieces of humanity. You can't walk in New York City and stop at a corner waiting for the light to change and
11:11 -  hear people talking to themselves. There are deranged people billowing out all over the earth, psychologically warped, mentally broken, emotionally disturbed. They're freaked out because God has made us physiologically to live righteously in sanity and truth and in
11:32 -  love. And when those conditions are not provided and somehow we have to adjust our organisms to some substandard mode of life, it's tremendous the tenacity of the human frame, how much abuse it can endure. But God never intended for that. So we just need to understand that
11:52 -  shame on us that dumb and inanimate nature is crying out and groaning and travailing insensate nature senses more acutely what we who have minds and hearts and spirits and the word of God do not yet understand nor long for. It's only those who long for his
12:15 -  appearing. It's not the appearing as a doctrinal matter of fact that we have to accept. There's a longing. And if you're not longing, something's amiss. And we need to seek the Lord about that. And Lord, do something for me that I would anticipate and look for and seek. And
12:39 -  maybe the problem is this. Unlike righteous Job, we are not chafed by the evil that is about us. His righteous soul was vexed. He couldn't stand Sodom and Gomorrah. It was painful. He got there by consequence of his own greed. He looked down on the valley and
13:00 -  it was lush. He chose the kinds of places that would inevitably lead him into a Sodom and Gomorrah. But once he was there and saw the evil of it, his righteous soul was vexed. And when your soul is vexed, you say come Lord Jesus. If it's not vexed and you've learned
13:17 -  to live with it and get by and maybe this is yet the best of all worlds and there's no longing. The longing for the coming of the Lord is personal. We want to see him. We want to see him. We desire that communion and fellowship. But it's also desiring his
13:37 -  vindication. He's been blasphemed. They've made stupid theatrical pieces about him. What is it called? Jesus Christ Superstar and other kinds of mocking things. He's blasphemed everywhere. I'm spared from it. I don't have to go out in the world and punch a time card and listen
13:56 -  to men jerks talking about GD this and GD that. I don't hear that language but I know it's frequent on every carnal man's lips. And God hears it. A continuous stream of abuse, profanity and blasphemy that goes up out of the earth that God has made by men who do
14:14 -  not even acknowledge him but despise him. So his coming as king is a great vindication, particularly in the city where he was mocked, cruelly treated and lampooned as king. That sign over his head in three languages, Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews, was not meant
14:35 -  to be edifying. It was meant to be humiliating. That robe, that crown of thorns, these were all men taunting, mocking and jeering at this itinerant preacher that he would have any profession to be king. He's going to come back in the exact city where he suffered these
14:54 -  humiliations and there be glorified and be glorified there forever. What a vindication if you love him. How much do you desire to see that and can hardly wait for that justification? And those of us who are suffering for his name's sake, catching the abuse that is directed
15:16 -  toward his people right at the end and all of the anti-Christ tirade that will be poured out and hanging in and barely surviving also wait for his coming for our vindication and our release for the things that will requite our patient suffering when he who comes, comes
15:36 -  and brings his reward with him. So if we don't have a sense of this and an anticipation for this, everything else is academic and that's my great fear. Maybe somebody can help me and help us how we can communicate and cultivate and nurture apostolic anticipation and make
16:01 -  that so central to all of our being like a focal point. We're moving towards something. Everything is seen in the light of that. It's the great centerpiece or else our life is just an accumulation of days. Okay, I want to read this paper that I'm going to send
16:23 -  to this magazine, this journal in England, but at the same time it stands as a survey of what we were discussing last night. So I'll try and go slow. If it's not clear, that's exactly what I need to find out. Make corrections even now that will go into the final draft
16:45 -  that I'll send these people. So is Lincoln 37 the necessary death and resurrection of Israel? A prophetic scenario for the last days. As with the prophetic son of man of this dread and glorious chapter, so also are we the prophetic people of God pressed to
17:06 -  be set down in the midst of a valley full of dry bones. In such a place one is required to dismiss all wishful thinking of things as we would like them to be and to consider them as they in fact are, which is to say as God himself sees them, indeed as they must
17:24 -  be seen or later forfeit any prophetic use by which these bones can be brought to life again. Everybody understands the connection with seeing and speaking. If we do not see as God sees, we cannot speak as God would speak. For to prophesy that is to be as God's
17:43 -  mouth, to speak the creative life-giving word requires first an identification with God that is total over and against any reluctance to face the grim fact of Israel's death. From the opening first verses of this text one suspects that the object of God's intention
18:03 -  is not Israel alone, however glorious her restoration, but also that of the son of man. Who is this figure but the suggestion of the Roman Church of the End Times brought to its full prophetic constituency and stature? What is more, compelled to that condition by the
18:26 -  very crisis of urgency that Israel in her hapless death requires? An action from outside herself by an ultimate prophetic faith and obedience of the other. Who is this? I'm talking now about the son of man, that God's object is not only Israel's restoration but he has
18:46 -  another object in mind, namely the son of man. Who is this figure but the suggestion of the Roman Church of the End Times? I'm not saying this is that. I'm making a suggestion because the scriptures do not say what the son of man is. It's evidently some symbolic
19:05 -  figure representing something and I'm prophetically suggesting that what it represents is the church of the last days brought to its full prophetic constituency and maturity. What is more, it is compelled to come to that condition by the very crisis of urgency that Israel
19:26 -  in her hapless death requires. In other words, it's a state to which the church would not have come. There would have been no incentive for it except that there's a requirement given it and it alone, the restoration of Israel from the dead, compels the church to find
19:43 -  that prophetic ground where its word constitutes event. This is the whole genius of the mystery of Israel and the Church. People might contend about this, that the Church doesn't need this. The Church doesn't need this. It will come to this perfection anyway. It will come to
20:04 -  this sanctification anyway. But I feel that this is something out of the genius of God because Israel requires in that death an action from outside herself that can only be performed in an ultimate prophetic faith and obedience of the other. There's not this thing that
20:29 -  the name of the reciprocal relationship between Israel and the Church by which the one is not made complete without the other at the very heart of Paul's discourse in Romans 11. How did this thought occur to me in Ezekiel 37? Because I'm already familiar with Romans
20:45 -  11. And Romans 11 shows the reciprocal relationship between Israel and the Church. One locked in with the other, that one without the other cannot attain to God's millennial blessedness. And so no accident that Ezekiel 37 should suggest the very same thing, seeing that it's
21:08 -  the very same God. And there was Paul's inspiration for Romans 11. Very likely Ezekiel 37 and other of the prophetic scriptures that we were considering. So this mystery is at the heart of Paul's discourse in Romans 11 and Aaron explains
21:29 -  the ecstatic praise with which the chapter concludes, oh the depths of the riches. For the mystery which Paul speaks is not only Israel's restoration but the transfiguration also of the last days remnant Church obtained in being the very agent of that restoration.
21:48 -  This will require that the Church be constituted then not as it is in its present fragmentation and divisiveness but as the whole people of God in that authentic unity that is the key to speaking with one voice. We didn't say much about this last night. But when we speak
22:08 -  it's got to be as one voice, which means a statement of our agreements. The Church in all of its diversity, in all of the things that make it up, coming to such an agreement of mind and heart and soul and spirit that it speaks with one voice as God. Can you think
22:28 -  of any place in the scripture where such a speaking was critical to a life and death situation for Israel and if they had not attained to the unity that made that speaking with one voice they might likely have perished? Where would that have been? You don't know?
22:52 -  How about bringing down the walls of Jericho with a shout? A shout, not many shouts, a shout. And that shout had to be emitted when the priest blew their horn. They had to walk around that city for seven days in rock step in perfect divine order and arrangement. Can
23:17 -  you imagine every temptation to the flesh to have the sand that the guy in front of you kicked in your teeth and you don't like the way he walks and he's a little out of pace and you should be in front of him rather than he in front of you and every kind of
23:32 -  thing that is human and what's the word divisive. Look at us this morning. My Lord, could we have found more things? How do I escape your scrutiny that you were offended by this and that and you could not find equally something in me? There's something about us being men
23:51 -  that finds fault, that makes comparisons, that doesn't like, that's invidious and exalts itself at the expense of another. Well how much more than for Jews walking around the city seven times in blazing sun in complete silence and then on the seventh day walking
24:12 -  seven times waiting for a horn to blow and when they heard that horn they have to with one shout bring those walls down. Can you imagine if their voices were creaky? If there was a note of unbelief in the voice? If it was not a resolute assurance that in that
24:34 -  shout the walls would come down what would have happened? They would not have come down. Not only would they not have come down but from behind those double thick ramparts would have come out these six seven feet tall Canaanites and utterly demolished Israel in all of its
24:53 -  weakness all the more for having spent its great strength walking around the city seven times. What an emptying of its resource that it would need in battle. It's a piece of foolishness if ever a strategy was contrived was that strategy. Can you imagine the murmuring? It's
25:11 -  getting hot. I'm thirsty. We've done this now for seven days. I'm getting tired. It's the fifth time. It's the sixth time. It's the seventh time. If this doesn't work we've had it then who ever said that this was God's strategy? Who's this Joshua anyway? I have
25:24 -  my doubts about him. Look at the condition of his marriage. Da da da da da da da da da da da da da da. When that horn blew and it only comes in one moment guys. It's a once and for all moment that does not come again. When God is going to command the son of man
25:44 -  company whoever it is and wherever it is to speak to those bones it's got to be now. Well Lord I'm not feeling very spiritual today. It was a late night last night. Can't we wait until I get my spiritual thing going? My sap is not yet flowing when God says now it's
26:04 -  now. I'll tell you in advance your sap will not be flowing. He's not going to choose a propitious moment. He never does it for me. The moment of greatest responsibility whether before thousands or before a few and I'm the naïve kind of man that believes that every
26:22 -  time I stand up for the Lord before his people life and death are at stake. That eternity that's like pray for me. That's just my naïve view that the thing is loaded and it's once and for all and it will never come again. Right now that word's got to. Invariably you don't
26:39 -  feel like it. You're not reared up and ready to go and coming out snorting and ready to take it on. You feel limp, weak, out of it, dispirited. That's when God calls for the obedience. It better not be measured by what you can perform only when you feel like it.
27:02 -  And I wish I had a dollar. I'd be a multi-millionaire for every saint that determines whether they're coming to the meeting tonight or they're going to do this if they feel like it or if the Lord will tell me. So we need to come to another posture of obedience not predicated by the
27:23 -  way I'm feeling but by the commandment of God. And as I say in this paper, if we are not habituated to being ordered by God through commandments, we'll not be able to be commanded in that day. In other words, if our wives are slipshod, up and down, yes we'll do something,
27:43 -  we feel like it, we like it, we agree with it, but on the other hand if we don't we exercise our veto power, we're not consistent in our obedience, we'll miss it in that moment. This final, ultimate, prophetic obedience must be preceded by a history of consistent
28:00 -  obedience or we will miss it in the final obedience. That's why God is speaking now. It's not going to be a little piece of magic that is going to be affected by the waving of a wand. It's going to come out of a disciplined people who can be commanded by the Lord even
28:17 -  when they don't feel like it. As I suspect many of you feel this morning, you don't feel like it. So this morning is more than just a talk, it's a discipline. It's girding up your lines when you don't feel like it and applying yourself and giving yourself to
28:47 -  the word of God. So this speaking with one voice, critical, it requires the authentic unity that is its key and this can never be the product of contrived ecumenical arrangements. I'm getting my big in. I'm just giving a little jab to all of this charismatic renewal pretense,
29:13 -  this whole religious, political muck that's going on by which supposed unity of the body of Christ is being affected between denominations as institutions. The unity of the body of Christ can never be an institutional matter. It has ever and always to be an organic matter
29:35 -  exactly of the kind that we experience this morning. If we're going to be a body that's of one mind and one heart and one soul, it's going to take what we did this morning. Humiliation, humbling, direct relationship, calling someone by name, I need to ask your forgiveness. We're
29:58 -  only taking first baby steps. You see, this is going to be over in another week or ten days, but what if it was forever? What if this is it? Did I hear someone groaning? You're not getting out of this place. This is it. This is God's fixed community and we didn't
30:22 -  choose each other who chose us, but we've got to make it with each other. Not just some kind of get by thing, but a really authentic union of agreement of heart and soul and mind and spirit, for God has given us prophetic tasks for the last days that can only be performed
30:39 -  out of that unity. What is it going to take? My God, the depths of things that were even beginning to be sounded, insecurity, difficulty with the opposite sex that probably has a history that goes back through an entire lifetime, maybe to infancy, who knows? These are the
30:55 -  kinds of things that God is fingering and requiring the redemptive depth in order to bring the people to true unity. How about a marriage? My God, I've just turned the corner and it's about 30 years, but we're still in kindergarten. We're still in some very basic
31:16 -  elementary place with some accommodation, but my God, what it has required, but are we at the place that our marriage is a glory? Far from it. What will it take? Much more. That will require time, intensive attention, application, learning and stumbling and all
31:36 -  of the rest of the kinds of things that make us cleave to God for grace. If we want something for our marriage, it's more than just a token compromise and getting by. Getting by is the really effectual axiom of this nation and probably the whole Western world. Get by.
31:57 -  Probably the only memory that remains with me from my high school teaching days is the kids who invariably came to the teacher's desk at the beginning of the first day of class to say, Mr. Katz, what's the minimum amount that we need to do to get by? This
32:14 -  is a get by nation. But if you take the glory of God seriously, the requirement eclipses getting by. Are we taking the issue of unity seriously? Or are we getting by? That is to say, we're free from any overt and evident rupture or tensions. It's sufficient for us
32:40 -  to operate and to enjoy the benefit of being together in the classroom. But is it the unity that they might be one as we are one? You know when the glory of God is revealed? When the condition of relationship between God's people is exactly akin to the condition of
33:00 -  relationship between the persons of the Godhead themselves. The Lord showed me that on this last trip overseas in England, sitting in a charismatic conference where they were talking about the unity of the body of Christ in the ecumenical way, and the brother, Bigme, said,
33:17 -  I said, do you agree with this? He said, do you think that this is unity? I said, what do you think is unity? I said, unity is when we will have attained on earth between ourselves the exact quality of relationship that God enjoys in his trinity in free persons. That
33:41 -  the world might know that the Father has sent me, when you shall be one as we are one. Think of what we've got to work through. Just the sex thing alone, male and female, he made the male and the female. There's nothing like a thing, nothing. The thing that makes men
34:07 -  climb walls and ceilings, don't they understand? Can't it be logical? But I did say I forgave you. Isn't that enough? But you don't understand. You didn't say it in a way that I really felt that you received me for myself as a person. Oh Lord.
34:28 -  You know what I mean? We're just scratching at the surface. But I'll tell you, we better start scratching now, because Israel is already moving toward its death. But are we moving toward our unity? People say, why are you preaching this message now? Because it's going
34:49 -  to take that long to get us fitted to be what we need to be, while God is already fitting them to be where they need to be. Their death is already at the door, but we are far from the prophetic union that would make our word an event. And I have a feeling that if the
35:11 -  Lord gives grace, and I know that he will, in this very season of abstaining from ministry and giving myself to my own son-family relationships, that out of that is going to become a more powerful and effectual word. I know that. I know the Lord has used me. He's blessed.
35:28 -  But we ain't seen nothing yet. There's going to be a power and an authority and an anointing that's going to blister the walls. We're going to see men fall before the word. They'll not be able to gain say nor to resist it. We'll see God performing works in one night, in
35:44 -  one message. He'll turn men completely around. He'll break through deception and fraud. He'll reveal the things of darkness. He'll free and he'll deliver. He'll work his works. His word will become a work in the earth because though I'm the sole one speaking at the point
36:01 -  of delivery, I am reflecting and coming out of a matrix of real and authentic agreement with my wife, with my children, with the community, with those with whom I am joined. That's the name of the game. Much easier just to be a pro and go out and do your individual professional
36:25 -  thing. But you are so joined with those with whom God has knit you. And the quality of that relationship and the truth of it is reflected in the nuance and the rate of everything that resonates from your mouth. We're in this together. Really in this together.
36:49 -  And it's going to take a lot of dying to come to the kind of agreement that will make that word in Minsk and Odessa and Moscow or Geneva, Switzerland or wherever it is to be like a sword that cuts the sun to the soul and the spirit. Because it's only one shot. You have
37:09 -  a minister's conference, you're not going to have it again. Once and for all. And eternity is at stake. And so that word has got to be effectual and powerful and will reflect the whole matrix of relationship out of which it issues.
37:28 -  Why do you think that in Acts 13, when Paul said, separate them to be Paul and Bonavus for the work whence I have called them, that after they had fasted and prayed, they laid their hands on them. So they, how does it say, having been prayed for, had their hands
37:50 -  laid upon, were sent forth by the Holy Ghost. God equating the laying on of the hands of the body with the actual sending of the Holy Spirit. That's how God sees it. And what is the laying on of hands? Is that some kind of a cheapy? Is that some kind of ecclesiastical
38:10 -  flourish? Or is that some kind of deep statement of identification and union that very much totally affects what happens with those who are sent. And those who have sent them and have laid hands on them, have identified and stated to the powers of darkness as well as
38:28 -  to God, we are joined with those men and our travail and intercession for them will be effectual and therefore we shall equally share in the reward of their labors. My great cry and concern for the Ben Israel people is what they will suffer by loss by
38:45 -  their failure to participate in the work through their prayer thousands of miles away here in Minnesota for what I am performing elsewhere in other nations. Their indifference, their thinking that let George do it, art's a professional, I don't have to bestow myself, robs them of
39:04 -  their share in the eternal reward for those labors. For God comes and rewards each man according to his works and intercession in behalf of the ministries of God is a significant work and labor. So this speaking with one verse, I think,
39:28 -  through many verses as one voice is a critical key that can never be the product of contrived ecumenical arrangements but that statement of apostolic authenticity itself. Such a church would likely at first comprise such extremes as those who are indifferent to Israel if
39:50 -  not hostile, with scant appreciation for her future, let alone for her destiny, as against those whose celebration is extravagant to the point of near idolatry. You see the extremes of the reaction of the church toward Israel? Some of them give a rap, some even feel that
40:08 -  Israel is finished and others anything that Israel does is right somehow and they're just aglow and suffuse with such a fascination for the things that are Jewish. Neither one of these positions is right and both need to be addressed at the cross to bring either
40:27 -  him who rejects or him who idolizes to a place of true spiritual appreciation for that nation. Both will require appropriate depths of dealings from God that will constitute virtually a death from those unplumbed sufferties of heart that can only be met at the cross. Why is
40:49 -  the Ezekiel 37 message resisted and unpopular? Because if you've got half a mind you realize that something is required by it that sounds strangely like the cross of Christ Jesus. It's not only Israel being called to death but me also. So including and dreading that
41:13 -  death it is little wonder that so many of us till now have been quick to affirm and congratulate present Israel despite her declining condition. Has she in fact not been the projection more than we could have understood of our own self-satisfaction and acceptance as the
41:32 -  church? We have projected upon present Israel very much the same kind of benign approval as we give to ourselves. I mean if we're doing okay and if we're not on resurrection ground why do they have to be? See what I mean? I'm not saying this is conscious but more than
41:50 -  you can know the way that you view Israel is very much a reflection of how you view yourself. You're looking through your own eyes. There's a subjectivity by the same way by which you see yourself as the church. And if you're satisfied with yourself as the
42:06 -  church you're not going to be quick to find fault with present Israel. It's only when we've been made jealous for the glory of God and see by his seeing that we see that both Israel and me have fallen short of the glory of God. Can Israel fulfill its covenantal
42:25 -  destiny to bless all the families of the earth except as a nation transformed through resurrection? And we consider that what we may be prematurely celebrating as the final prophetic fulfillment is rather its necessary preliminary. Imagine the shock of someone reading that in this
42:43 -  British journal who thinks that present Israel is already the prophetic fulfillment. And I'm raising questions that have never been sounded, never been expressed. Everyone has automatically assumed that God was in this since the beginning and there's a truth in
42:57 -  the sense that he has. Even though it has been the work of man, a Zionist, political, secular, atheistic venture, Israel could not have succeeded lest God had given an assist. But does that mean that that is the final statement of God's prophetic intention? And
43:20 -  if it's not, why would God assist it? That's right. He raised it up that he might bring it down. That's why. To assist and allow a political entity called Israel to exist now for well over 40 years, knowing that it is not the final statement, it's not in a condition
43:44 -  to reveal his glory, why even permit it at all from the first? And do you have a corollary of this in your own life? Where he's allowed something to come up only to bring it down? And you were satisfied with that something and if you could have preserved it you would
44:00 -  have. What was served then in God allowing a first in Israel to take it away to give a second? I've already married a few people a second time. God has allowed the marriage to fall into absolute devastation and decline and nullified and then gives it again but
44:25 -  as something entirely other. There's a first Adam and a second Adam and there's a verse maybe somebody can find it for me but I know it's there. He takes away the first to give the second. So can we consider that what we may be prematurely celebrating as the final,
44:41 -  I've got that in italics, prophetic fulfillment is rather it's necessary preliminary that the spiritual is not first but the natural then the spiritual. Where is that found in the scriptures? 1st Corinthians 15 which is Paul's whole statement of the genius of resurrection
45:00 -  that quote what is raised in glory must first be sown in dishonor unquote. Also Paul, 1st Corinthians 15. Here one would be saved from the predicament of defending or justifying Israel's increasingly desperate measures if they are seen as the very stratagem of God
45:20 -  and bringing the nation to an end of its false hope in itself. It had to experience first the natural. It had to have a shot at it. It had to learn that it cannot by its own virtue and strength and prowess establish an Israel that glorifies God. I mean what
45:39 -  it did is commendable. What it did is enormously impressive. Can you tell me another nation in the world that in 40 years raised itself up from its own bootstraps and took an abandoned piece of landscape and planted an entire civilization in 40 years and became the world's third greatest
45:55 -  military power? With a high tech civilization, culture takes a dead liturgical language and makes it a flourishing secular language, has its own literature and culture that is not Jewish in the way that we have known a Jewish culture before the advent of Israel.
46:12 -  A whole nationhood, personality, mode of living, significance. Israel is small but what a weight it has among the nations, what an effect it has had in only 40 years. Literally speaking it is an enormously impressive accomplishment. Divinely speaking it stinks. It falls short
46:37 -  of the glory of God. And if there were just an ordinary people God maybe could have looked the other way and winked. But God has a promise to fulfill that he spoke to Abraham that out of your loins and out of your seed will come a people who will bless all the families of
46:54 -  you. Not interests and for that difference Israel has got to go through the grinder. In fact would we be the deep end to say that God gave the charismatic movement not as being the end in itself or a final statement but even to foreshadow something that would replace
47:16 -  it that would be totally authentic and glorious and that would need to be replaced. But what's been the whole history of religious movements in the world? What first comes as revival and then becomes established and institutional then resists the next wave to extend or to
47:36 -  replace it. It's the whole history of the church and therefore it resists being replaced and wants to become permanently established as the thing in itself. It sets its feet in. But we use the word revival religiously what we're saying is some kind of vitality in the
47:58 -  old form. If only God would charge it a bit, give it a little luster but we don't want it to go and let it be replaced. And I did want to say this yesterday, I'll say it now, when I talked about only a love of God, an unconditional love of God joined with faith.
48:17 -  The faith that works by love will bring that word that raises the dead and the thing that stands in the way of the impediment is our lesser love, our affection, our sentimental regard for Israel that needs to die, needs to be put away. They're good. And I'll tell
48:33 -  you what, you don't go automatically from the one to the other. You know what you experience? A season of nothing. You've let go of the one but the other hasn't come in with one fell swoop and you're in no man's land. You need a loving, no unloving, you can't do this
48:51 -  and you're groping like a jerk in the dark and you can even hope and rush back if you can still capture back again what you had before. You would be happy for the charismatic woman if you could find it but you're in a no man's land. God really testing the depth
49:08 -  of your sincerity about being so jealous for that which is perfect that you're willing to relinquish that which is merely good. You know how it feels to be loveless? To have your face sticking out without credentials, without ability. God will test the truth of
49:26 -  this resurrection, of this willingness for an authentic death and it's not comfortable. I wanted to say that last and I'm glad I'm having now an opportunity to go back and dot the I's and cross the T's. If we think we're talking about a theoretical death, forget
49:44 -  it. A theoretical death is not going to eventuate in an authentic resurrection. The death must be as authentic as the resurrection it follows or there will be no authentic resurrection. We'll still be fixed at the verbal plateau talking about something but not having the
49:59 -  reality thereof and the test of it is whether our word will raise the dead. Don't you love a situation where it's put up or shut up? Not enough to be theoretical or even to be correct but to be so authentic that the reality will testify that the word that has come forth
50:21 -  has actually raised the dead. How would you like Jesus at the tomb of Lazarus saying come forth but he's only saying it theoretically? A man who is now dead unto stinking. Something had to come forth and had to come forth in a given moment now by a word spoken by an
50:41 -  obedient son. That coming forth of Lazarus set in motion the things that eventuated in the very death of Jesus because when they saw that it's necessary that one man die for the nation. This has gone too far now. This guy raising the dead. What made his word effectual?
51:04 -  Is there a question that should really occupy us? There's only one moment that comes and when it comes it's got to be met authentically and everything till that moment is preparation. How would you like to look at your life like that? Everything till now is preparation.
51:24 -  I think that's a healthy and sane way to look at it. It would be a pity if we made what we're talking about now some new gimmick, some little panacea like church growth or power evangelism or something that we would add that would bring
51:39 -  a new lesson. No. This completely devastates all previous categories. This is ultimately the true thing or where we are most to be pitied. This is authenticity itself and that's why I'm such a jealous fool. I'll rip and tear and snarl. I'm a tiger when it comes
51:57 -  to the words apostolic and prophetic. Don't play with that or I'll be on your neck with my fangs buried. Go ahead and do anything you want to do. Talk about charismatic. Do this. Do that. Play your games. But don't touch the sacred language because if you take
52:14 -  that and discredit that and make that a little cutesy new vocabulary and a plaything, there's nothing left. You've taken the holiest, the purest and the best and now you've ruined it by your misuse and it cannot be revived. We've got to be jealous. Those of us who
52:32 -  are called to prophetic apostolic responsibility need to be jealous with these two great words for they are the foundation of the church. I'll read you maybe tomorrow when we get on the subject of prophets how I have publicly sent out a letter to 50 prominent men in this
52:55 -  nation who are either purported to be prophets or occupied with the prophetic phenomenon to raise very serious questions about what is presently being celebrated as prophetic because I will not allow that word to be denigrated by someone who has a gift of knowledge and
53:15 -  could tell you your mother's name and your social security number and say that that's a prophet let alone that he's the prophet of the hour. My God, what are you saying? You fool. You're destroying the church in your cheap acknowledgement because you do
53:30 -  not sufficiently revere what prophetic is. We are watchmen on the wall, saints. We need to be jealous for the things that pertain to God's glory and only a church that is apostolic and prophetic can obtain that. You guys realize that essentially our present day Christianity,
53:50 -  even at its best forms, is largely phraseological? That somehow we naively think that if we can say it we have it? That if we can verbalize it and formulate it as a credo that somehow we have it? And there are millions of people every Sunday morning reciting the Apostles
54:07 -  Creed that wouldn't know an apostle if they stumbled over one? This is where the authentic thing of God degenerates into religion and unless you're jealous over it and watchful it will happen even with the best of us. The most sacred things can become transfused into
54:29 -  mere religion and I need to be watched over myself. I get scared when I hear myself and it sounds like an echo of our cats like I've even come to a place where I'm imitating myself unconsciously. I'm losing my authenticity and I'm just a bearer of words and messages.
54:51 -  You've got to fight for your integrity and to maintain your authenticity and I want to say this and I'll say it when we talk about prophets. You cannot do this prophetically except in relationship with others. If you're a solo prophet doing your own thing and going
55:09 -  from one holiday into the other and there's no man speaking to you and finding you out and addressing you and correcting you, if you're not subject to the review and critique of an entire community you're in a dangerous place. But I want to tell you that to be in
55:26 -  the place of review and critique and examination is not comfortable but it's life saving. If I have any bulldog around here that's continually nipping at my heels it's Al. The heck of it is he's so often right. I bless him for that. He's not intimidated and he's not going to
55:52 -  be put off if he sniffs something. How many pastors would we have saved from falling? How many spiritual women out of our congregations that have fallen into the most derelict whoredoms if we had sensed from the beginning the first erosions of character? If we had begun to
56:12 -  sense some fluctuation in their personality or in the pastor's speaking where his tone now has become professional and that his speaking is no longer natural but affected and religious and had the courage to tell him so. I'll tell you deception is having a field day,
56:34 -  isn't that right? The world is in a lie and the church, my God, I had to have some running with Mormons lately and then on the very same trip go to Salt Lake City where I'd not been for 100 years and come into the Mormon tabernacle and see the Mormon, what do you call it, with
56:56 -  Angel Moroni on top, to realize, my God, what a religious Disneyland, what a hoax and yet what an investment of untold millions and billions to have perpetrated it and it misses as good as a mile. Have you ever used that expression? When we were kids growing up in
57:15 -  Brooklyn and playing ball in the streets, you can swing the bat lustily but if you miss it by just a fraction it just drops to the ground or it's a foul pop-up. But to make a connection means bye-bye baby, that ball is over the fence, a home run. A miss
57:30 -  is as good as a mile and though we subscribe to many orthodox elements of the faith, there's just a little deviance here, a little deviance there. The end thereof is deception of the profoundest kind and it made me to reflect, why would Satan go that far to present an
57:48 -  angelic visitation to a man by the name of Joseph Smith and even present perhaps golden plates and then later subsequent visitations to build up a whole religious system that has occupied the attention of millions and has the most tenacious missionaries going
58:05 -  out all over the earth simply to keep mankind from the truth. How far will the enemy go to deceive? I mean it really struck me and here's another thing that struck me. Having begun to contemplate that I finally had the thought, you don't have to be deceived by
58:25 -  false doctrine. You can come to a place of deception and be perfectly orthodox in your doctrine and have turned the true thing into a lie and that is the cruelest and most devious of all deceptions because you think that you're eminently in the truth because you're saying
58:44 -  and subscribing to quote the correct things but you're living as effectually in a lie and as much deceived as any Mormon, any Jehovah's Witness or any other cult or sect. That the truth itself can be turned into a lie and I think that when the scriptures speak about
59:00 -  holding the truth in unrighteousness there's something of a suggestion of this. Don't think that you're correct because you're correct. Don't think because you say the right thing that you're right. Deception is so powerful, my God, you can't believe the depths of it.
59:21 -  What men will do, I mean, I don't want to get personal but we will be fools to misjudge the power of deception and therefore need rightly to understand the provision of God to be saved from it. Mainly each other walking in the light and being to each other reckoning
59:48 -  what we must however painful. Speaking the truth in love and exhorting one another daily while it's yet today for next Sunday is already too late. The leaven is in the lump and you've got to just relate with those for whom you're relating in the locality where you are. They
01:00:07 -  have no apostolic understanding. They don't even want the responsibility of being accountable to them. What then? If you give yourself to these men trusting God in a truth of accountability, what do you think is likely to happen to them? An elevation of their own sense of responsibilities
01:00:31 -  so much to say, hey, this guy is taking this seriously. He's expecting for me to hear from God about him and to witness the things that he's receiving from the Lord and he's looking to me in a responsible way. I guess something is being required of me and by that very means
01:00:50 -  and that submission and humility, a growth is generated by men who would otherwise be leaning on their haunches. It compels them to be what they ought because you take them seriously according to the word of God and you honor and recognize them as elders even
01:01:08 -  if they don't see it for themselves. They will see it. It's the same thing with a wife of an unstate husband. When she honors him and defers to him and submits to him even in his unbelief, something is worked from heaven that brings the man to an awareness
01:01:24 -  of something by which he would not otherwise have come. If it's not an authentic submission, we're playing a game. If we still think that we can do what we want when it comes to the real things like leaving town, taking another job, taking this vacation when we want, doing
01:01:41 -  with our money what we want and that we submit the other and lesser questions but reserve for ourselves single unilateral ability to determine we're playing a religious game and that's in fact what so much has been. This shepherding and, what do they call it, shepherding
01:01:57 -  and the system and discipleship that was rampant in this country for about a decade was a game and a cruel game and a devastating game. God's not calling us to a game. He's calling us to something so authentic that the whole issue of His coming and His kingdom is at stake.
01:02:18 -  Because we don't come to this unanimous agreement through such a process. There'll be no prophetic reality or speaking. I'm unhappy for all that's been generated out of this discussion, this paper. You know, and I love this. I'd rather do it this way than we have a class on liberty,
01:02:36 -  a class on nerves, a class, you know. This comes organically out of the flow of the issues that God is putting before us and who would take an A for the day to identify the genius of God in this? Can you see that the mind of the Lord is not lineal? It's not compartmental.
01:02:58 -  When I visit a Bible school and I see the kids going from class to class, the bell rings and you go from Old Testament survey to hermeneutics and the bell rings again and you go to missions and then you go to evangelism. My God, that'll rattle your brains. But give me this. Give
01:03:14 -  me something unstructured. Give something open to God and let Him begin where He will and let Him open something that if you look intensively into any issue of the faith, you'll be looking into all the issues of the faith, which is virtually what's happening to us
01:03:31 -  today and in these days. Okay. You know, the scriptures are almost as profound for what they left unsaid as for what they say. There's not a word about the relationship between Daniel and the other two children
01:03:46 -  of Israel, but they must have had a quality of relationship. But we know that they prayed together. We know that they defied the Babylonian authorities together. They stood together as one. And I wonder if that relationship was magical or that they did not experience
01:04:02 -  the same thing, secret envy, who's this Daniel that thinks he's somehow better than me, and you know, that stuff in here is in the flesh. It's got to come. It's got to be surfaced. It's got to be dealt with. It's got to be passed through. Nothing magical. It's the
01:04:19 -  cross. And though the scriptures are not explicit to speak of it, you can be assured that they went through every kind of thing that we ourselves are going in order to come to the place where they could defy Nebuchadnezzar and those mandates to worship idols with an agreement and a
01:04:35 -  unity for which they would give their life. You weren't here when we discussed the very beginning of Moses and the burning bush. And where was God to be found? And except you find him there, there's no sending. In the
01:04:48 -  midst of a bush that had prickly, what do you call it? A thorn bush. There he was as the burning, consuming God, and only there. And that bush is lowly, ordinary, commonplace, prickly. The kind of thing that we want to avoid, but is with us. It's what our life is
01:05:06 -  made of. And if we'll find him in the midst of that, in the reality and the grit of the everyday and the ordinary, we will really have found him. So there's a lot of romantic fantasizing about God, and we're missing him. Here he is, you know, in the midst all the
01:05:22 -  hell, if we'll turn aside to see. And look into our relationships, look into the grit of what we are as the Church and as God's people. Don't you love an environment in which we can do that? Without being shot down, and that you can risk something, and even if it
01:05:38 -  doesn't come out altogether right, you're not going to be penalized for it. I'm so clumsy myself that, you know, somehow when I'm saying something relationally, it doesn't come out right. I wanted it to, and it opens up the possibility of misunderstanding and engendering
01:05:53 -  worse resentment than seeking to bring something correct than if I left the thing alone. Yet, God is a redemptive God and will honor that and will even employ what doesn't come out right in the wash to bring about his perfect end. Okay, that's love, by the way. Speaking
01:06:13 -  the truth in love. So, I'm talking about first the natural and then the spiritual. What is sown in dishonor is later raised in glory. And to understand that and to understand that that's what the Israel of 1948 means saves us from the predicament of having to defend
01:06:34 -  or justify Israel's increasingly desperate measures if they are seen as the very stratagem of God in bringing the nation to an end of its false hope in itself. Otherwise, what alternative but to reject her or to join the course of those who censure her for the very
01:06:50 -  failings she must experience in being brought to that necessary end. Can you follow that? That too long. Yeah. You know, we're forced to a certain response to Israel. Her conduct is becoming increasingly indefensible. And those who love her feel an obligation to
01:07:13 -  somehow stand for her and with her and justify her. But you can't do that easily and still love truth. You have to acknowledge that they're taking actions now that are at the very least questionable and at the most serious moral transgressions. You don't dispossess 50 to
01:07:32 -  150,000 people and destroy their villages and kill a couple of hundred civilians and wound 500 in a military campaign to strengthen your northernmost boundaries. You don't invade another nation and do that. That's historically unprecedented. That would be called aggression.
01:07:51 -  And that's what Israel has just done in order to preserve itself physically. So how do we justify? How do we defend? It's increasingly difficult. And what I'm saying is if we understand that what Israel is doing flows out of an untenable place in which God has put her,
01:08:12 -  she is required to act as she is. And it's that very thing which is God's strategy to bring her finally to an end of herself. And I'll get into that a little bit more in a moment. This paradox is revealed in the harsh suppression and necessary denial of the Palestinians,
01:08:31 -  their political autonomy that her own democratic suppositions would logically have conceded. Israel is supposed to be a democracy. And yet ironically she cannot accede to the Palestinians having a democratic right, a political autonomy of their own. One person, one vote. I mean
01:08:51 -  they cannot have it because demographically it would threaten Israel's whole structure. And there's a greater increase of progeny with ours than there is with Jews. Israel leads the world in the rate of abortion. And the Palestinians lead the world in the natural
01:09:08 -  increase. And so if left to itself, the very demographic thing would change Israel from being a Jewish state. There is such a quandary. So these contradictions are not in fact what she must experience in bringing her to an end of that hope in herself as a distinctively
01:09:29 -  moral and morally superior nation. You need to know that Jews have always felt that they are morally and ethically superior. It's a luxury that you can enjoy when you're living in a ghetto. You can think all kinds of thoughts about yourself because you're powerless. But
01:09:48 -  to put that same powerless people into the place of power, and alack and alas what happens, you find yourself acting like other nations. Power corrupts. And absolute power corrupts absolutely. And Israel has been required to learn what God all along has said is so. There's
01:10:05 -  not one man good, no not one. And if God were to mark iniquity, who can stand? Israel has never surrendered to God's statement on the human condition. And thinks that its Jewish condition is somehow superior to the Gentile condition. And that's why God cannot allow
01:10:25 -  Israel to succeed on the basis of its own virtue. It must fail. It's calculated to fail. And not only to fail as a place of political refuge, but as a country that sought to demonstrate its superiority to other nations being Jewish. It must fail where it thinks it's superior.
01:10:44 -  Namely, in its moral and ethical aspect. I would have to say there was something like that that led me to the Lord. My collapse in that area. My presumption that I was some kind of superior individual in a moral and ethical way who really loved values. I could
01:11:04 -  fornicate, but there was a way in which, for me it was poetry. For someone else it was just sleaze. But for me it's love. What man does not justify himself exactly like that until God takes the blinders from his eyes and says, hey, however you've justified it,
01:11:22 -  that's sin. You're a cheap, sensual, carnal man seeking his own pleasure and leaving behind the scrap heap and the refuse of discarded souls who have served your purpose for the moment. I could never have seen it. And I could not see it until my own conduct eventuated
01:11:42 -  in it. And Israel is moving very much to that same conclusion. Pray that her eyes be opened. And what can we be to Israel if our condition as the Church is not essentially much better? What one thing would have saved Israel from this terrible and cruel dilemma of having
01:12:01 -  to act as we're now describing and we're now seeing? What one thing alone, and only that one thing, could have saved Israel from acting as she's acting? The knowledge of God. And the trust and the faith in God to protect and to preserve her. That one thing alone
01:12:20 -  would save her from the expediencies to which she in the arm of flesh has had to go when there's not a belief in God who saves. If there's no belief in God then you have to be your own defense. And to be that means in the last analysis you become a murderer.
01:12:39 -  1964, which is when I was saved in Jerusalem and traveled around the country, there was at that time still an idealistic cooperative spirit. The people in the kibbutz scene were pioneers. The youth had an ideal to follow. It was kind of like something of an early
01:12:59 -  stage of our own life where God allows us to be idealistic, principled. And somehow he gives you a season by which that serves for a season. But he cannot allow it to remain because really it is a false basis. It's a confidence in man, particularly your own humanity,
01:13:18 -  your own ability to be right and to do right. And so then the Lord has since 64 intensified the conditions of Israel's situation such and such to the point where idealism, humanism is out the window. The country is becoming more and more cynical, more and more expedient,
01:13:38 -  more and more cast upon the use of power and force for its preservation. And they even are embarrassed to speak of how they were in times past and the kind of lofty idealism that characterized Israel in its early kibbutz formative days. And now the kibbutz is a dying
01:13:58 -  phenomenon. Many people don't want to go there. They want to go to the cities where the discos are and where hope for success in the car and abroad and all that kind of stuff can take place. So there's been a vast shift in the whole mentality, which I think
01:14:12 -  is what must finally come to any humanist, any idealist, finally in the end must come to the realization of the bankruptcy of a position that is rid of God. It's a disillusionment and that disillusionment is very grace because disillusion means to be freed from illusions
01:14:34 -  and illusions are a lie that conceals the necessity for God. And if we'll not come to that out of purest love of truth, God will bring it to us out of our circumstances. If we will not hear the prophets, if we will not consult his word, he'll bring it to us
01:14:54 -  in our experience. And if we'll still not hear, he'll then yet make the experience more devastating. What Israel might have been had the nation interpreted the Holocaust differently is only something that we can speculate. Maybe the devastations that we anticipate would
01:15:13 -  not need to have come if there would have been a broken recognition of transgression and offense to God that made the Holocaust necessary. But seeing that it was not interpreted that way, but seen as an aberration of history through some mad dog named Hitler and those
01:15:31 -  Germans and not seeing it as the consequence of their own separation from God, other Holocausts must then follow. Preliminary judgments are given to save us from ultimate judgments, but if the preliminary judgment does not serve its purpose, God will bring the ultimate.
01:15:49 -  And some of you may have heard on a tape or heard me say that at one time at a minister's conference in Japan, in Osaka, just spontaneously I said, if you think that Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the atom bombing of those cities, are to be attributed to men operating from either a
01:16:09 -  political or military position, you have missed it completely. They are the preliminary judgments of God on a nation that does not even have a word for sin in its vocabulary and whose whole religious posture is only a cultural prop to reinforce the privileged
01:16:28 -  social classes and to see that men behave in a way that would make society coherent. But there's no love of God, no acknowledgement of truth, and no seeking of him, and you've devastated the missionaries that were sent into your midst earlier in your history. I
01:16:45 -  was presenting the atom bombing of Japan's two great cities as being the hand of God, and a minister leaped to his feet, I thought he was ready to punch me out, and he cries out, God, he said, make me a prophet for my nation. He got the point.
01:17:03 -  And indeed, unless God raises up prophets for that nation who will rightly interpret the meaning of its history, that they will repent for it and turn to a God whom they have forsaken and have never been willing to know and have been satisfied with a religious
01:17:19 -  cultural alternative and have not a word for sin in their vocabulary, the greater judgments will follow. The fires and the burnings precede the fire that shall not be quenched. And we ourselves need to see it as the Church, or we cannot sound a warning.
01:17:39 -  So maybe this is a good point to take a look at.