A Wandering Jew Comes Home

00:00 -  So Lord, forgive us if we've spoken anything that's been out of our will. We're so crammed full of you and your reality and what you're doing in these days, Lord, that we can speak for hours. But we want you to shape it, to single out
00:15 -  the things that bless your heart and that are out of your heart. And we ask you just to possess this body and come in and take it over and put us on and wear us and take our minds upon yourself, our brain, our energy, our mouth, our heart, our
00:30 -  emotions, and Lord, let them see Jesus. You speak to them as a living God who woos and weens and draws to himself. Precious God, let not one who is here tonight have any doubt whatever that they heard from the Almighty God and that
00:47 -  their hearts are deeply stirred and that you minister to them whatever they need We do this so conscious of being prejudiced against, and it's true, but I want to acknowledge that at least for me, I was quite capable of my own
01:03 -  prejudices. I had quite a thing going against the goyim all my life, and I wondered what I could ever have to do with those people who are light-complexed and sandy-haired and have freckles and come from the Midwest.
01:16 -  You know, the gap was so enormous, I could never see any basis for bridging the gap. And I said on top of that, I was a man of very intense anger and hatred as a result of the war. And I said, isn't life ironic that a man of this nature would
01:34 -  during the Korean War be sent to Germany to live in the bosom of the people that he would despise? And then I wanted to describe the experience I had After being here for some months, I came to see the tremendous similarity between
01:46 -  German life and Jewish life. The Germans are so much like our Yiddish, and they like good food and drink and talk, and that's so Jewish, they call it the mutlischkeit, and I love their medieval towns and cities, and the sense of
01:59 -  antiquity that centuries old, it really touched my heart. It was America where I always felt like a man without a country. The more I came to be drawn to this people, the more I could not understand how they could have done what they did.
02:11 -  The fact of the Holocaust of six million Jews being turned to ashes and to soap in the 20th century was for me the single greatest brute fact of our age. It transcends any other consideration. It's so stupefying that this was done in
02:30 -  our age of enlightenment and progress, not by some barbaric people, but by the most eminently civilized people on earth, and I never had an answer for that, and it was just, I was like a pot on a stove boiling, seething, frothing over.
02:45 -  There was a canker in my heart, and it came a Jewish holiday. You notice how we call the holy days holidays? How the devil has pulled out from under us the two most sacred events of the year, the two most Jewish events of the year,
03:02 -  Christmas and Easter, and he's made of them holidays and shopping sprees and orgies of paper and plastic and ribbon and tinsel and junk. I tell you, I dread the Christmas season that's coming. It makes my soul to weep. We have a God who is holy,
03:22 -  and excuse me if I'm going to ramble back and forth, but God's just dropping things into my heart. When we lived in Kansas City just a few months ago, I picked up a girl at a home for unwed mothers, who was going to be our babysitter that night,
03:33 -  and it was the Christmas singing season, and I was humming a Christmas carol, Oh Little Town of Bethlehem, and this Jewish girl said to me, I don't know if she was Jewish, she said, please Mr. Kent, I wish you wouldn't sing those songs.
03:48 -  It makes me feel so nostalgic that I'm a Jewish girl who has always been very strangely drawn to these Christmas songs, and it bothers me. I turned to this kid, I said, if you really underserved, Christmas is the most Jewish event of the year.
04:03 -  Oh Little Town of Bethlehem, had we known that in Micah, our prophet, in the fifth chapter, in the second verse, that God had said to us, but out of thee, Bethlehem afraideth, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet shall he come
04:16 -  forth unto me, who is to be the ruler of all Israel, whose goings forth have been from old and everlasting. But we didn't know. We didn't know that the prophets wrote. And that's why Jesus said, if you knew Moses and knew the prophets, you
04:30 -  would know me, for they spoke of me. But that Jewish girl's problem was mine. We never read the prophets. We never opened the scriptures. Karl Marx I read, and Sigmund Freud I read, and Eric Fromm I read, and every modern commentator I read,
04:47 -  and every writer of seductive literature I read. But the book of the living God, that I never opened. Beneath my contempt, an offense to my intellect. So I was an atheist. You know, atheism is the only intelligent position if you've never
05:05 -  been exposed to the reality of the living God. If you've just had a bland church or synagogue exposure, I believe that atheism is a logical consequence. I never saw any evidence of God, whatever. Seven years at a Hebrew school and
05:20 -  widely exposed in traditional Jewish life. No, I don't remember anyone ever speaking about God. It was the kind of the unspoken thing. You know, it's an embarrassing subject. You don't talk about that. I was desperately in search
05:34 -  of meaning and truth. And by the time I was a 15-year-old kid in Brooklyn, I was already assured that the answers for my life were needed to be found in Jewish religion or Gentile religion. And I wondered why people were even getting
05:47 -  excited about religions and denominations when there's no God. If there's no foundation, why are you bothering about a superstructure? Well, this is just a ceremonial thing. It just provides a place where you get married or baptized
05:58 -  or confirmed or bar mitzvahed. What has that to do with life? I was seeking life and I wanted it more abundantly. And there are a lot of people in that condition today who have sewn out the baby with the bathwater. They've had a little
06:13 -  inoculation in churches. They've heard some some doctrine, some theology, and they've not seen life. And they've concluded that there's no God. So here I was in Germany in Yom Kippur, a high holy day, the highest, the day of atonement.
06:28 -  And I wasn't going to go to a synagogue, but I went to a concentration camp. I thought it was far more fitting. And I visited this place called Dachau, which is preserved as a museum. And I didn't expect that I was going to find anything
06:39 -  new that I didn't know before. I was already very informed, very alive with my indignation and anger against the Germans. And I had an experience that turned my life completely around. You know, we think we know, but we
06:53 -  don't know what we want to know. There's no substitute for reality. There's no substitute for direct experience. You can be informed intellectually and theologically and spout it like an expert, but when you have that first-hand
07:07 -  contact with the real thing. Remember what happened to that prophet Isaiah? He wasn't just a rank-and-file Jewish man. He wasn't just one of God's choice instruments. He was the prince of the prophets, the great oracle of God, to whom
07:24 -  was entrusted the most sacred revelations of the Messiah to come. But in the sixth chapter of his book, he had a little experience. He saw God high and lifted up and his train filled the temple. And he saw God in his glory, in
07:40 -  his magnitude, in his totality, attended by seraphim, angelic creatures, whose one function throughout the whole of eternity was to cry just one word, holy, holy, holy. And the Shekinah glory of God was so great in that presence that the
07:57 -  very doors lurched out of their gyms and the place rocked on its foundation. And Isaiah had been standing glib like high lord. I mean, it's the number one servant. He said, oy vey. You know what that means? So you just had the King James. He says, woe is me.
08:16 -  Oy vey is almost untranslatable. It's a cry of pain, schmetz. It's something that when your heart is pierced through. Oy vey, woe is me, I'm undone. For I'm a man of unclean lips, and I live, Mr. Pupil, unclean lips. Or if I could pray for anything, I would pray
08:34 -  for a vision of God in his holiness to come upon this earth, and even upon God's people, that we might be conscious of the taint on our lips. We might be conscious of our easy talk, and our glib and unctuous phrases, and our religious motions, and our easy catechisms,
08:50 -  and all the rest, and fall on our faces before him and cry out, oy vey, I'm undone. And then we would have a remedy. He would take the taint and the iniquity from us by the coal from his altar. I had an experience, the first of its kind, in that concentration camp. I actually went into the
09:10 -  barracks. Everything was preserved as it had been through those years. And I ran my hand over the wood bunks, and I could picture these gone skeletons that had been herded together there like sardines once upon a time. And I walked down the company streets of whipping poster in their place,
09:22 -  the commandant's office with the exhibition tables, and you can look through and see the photographs of mounds of hair and fillings from teeth and eyeglasses and tattered uniforms, implements of torture. There was a museum of horror. And then I went into the dance room,
09:35 -  and the jets were still there, and the sign in German, the bell with the belt, informing these prisoners that they would receive a shower to undress, and then right adjoining that was the fact of extermination, with the ashes still in the place in the oven and conveyor belts. I went
09:51 -  outside, I put my hand on a smokestack, and I was undone. I was a slick hotshot in New York, full of little information, but I didn't know as I got to know. The tragedy was so overwhelming. The reality of seeing the bones and the ashes still in a place and picking this smokestack that
10:11 -  used to belch 24 hours a day just did me in. My brain shorted, my nerves, my heart, my emotions. I stumbled and staggered out of that place like a drunk man, and I found myself on a train. I didn't even know where I was being taken. I didn't care. I was numb with pain. I had my face pressed to the
10:29 -  window, and I was being whisked back to Munich, one of the glorious cities of Germany. Seminaries, concert halls, opera houses, museums, libraries, churches, all the paraphernalia of civilization, and right in the shadow of that civilization, this most unspeakable death. And I had my face
10:47 -  pressed to the glass, looking at the Bavarian countryside whizzing by, and the beauty of it just pierces you hot. It's not like New Jersey. You've got to see it. I mean, these Germans, they must go with a vacuum cleaner in their forests. There's not such a thing as a crumpled
11:04 -  cigarette pack or a piece of ramping from chewing gum. It's glorious. And I thought of all of the genius that this beauty had inspired, the Mozart's and Beethoven's and Fichte's and Hegel's and Nietzsche's and Schopenhauer's and Goethe's and Schiller's. There's no end to the composers
11:20 -  and the poets and the artists and the philosophers that this same Germany had produced. And I couldn't for the life reconcile how a nation that could produce this genius could also produce this heart. But I tell you people that that is the lesson of the 20th century. God is trying to tell us
11:36 -  something. Our civilization has failed. And we're more cruel than animals when we're forced in desperation with our backs to the wall. And those of us who used to clock our tongues at the Germans and say, well, that was a German crime, those Germans, World War I, World War II, a little
11:55 -  surprised when after World War II we learned about the French in Algeria, hanging men from their thumbs and pumping water into men to force confessions. Why, French, they're the ones who originated the exquisite culture. And then we learned about our own boys and our own massacres.
12:12 -  You know that there's no man good, no not one. We've all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And when we stand before him that day, we're not going to be saved because of our convenience or because the circumstances of our life were such that we were never forced to a place to
12:28 -  demonstrate the horror and the death which was already in our hearts. But our hearts will condemn us. And you know that I was in that little train compartment. It's not like the American train, there's little cubicles where you slide the glass door shut. And I sensed that there was another man
12:43 -  in that compartment with me. And I turned for a quick second, I did a very quick double take because I saw a blur of a blond head and blue eyes. And when I saw that symbol of the master race, the Aryan, my enemy, after what I'd just seen that day, I felt the hatred well up in me. I was
12:57 -  consumed with hatred. I was ready to turn to that man and rend him limb from limb. And when I turned to focus on him, I saw that I didn't have to do it. It had already been done. He was a man without arms and legs, just a half man with artificial hooks and limbs,
13:13 -  half a body left behind on a battlefield. And that poor sucker was writhing in pain, trying to adjust his limb with his hooks and his hips were slipping. And I had my arms folded over my chest, wearing the uniform of Uncle Sam, the army of the victor, looking on the vanquished and
13:26 -  the defeated, the Jew and the Gentile, and watching that man squirm and rise in his feet in pain. And I was thinking to myself, suffer you dog. Whatever pain you're experiencing now is only a minute portion of what your people inflicted upon mine. And you know, as I watched this guy
13:40 -  squirm, there was such a war raging in my own heart between pity and vengeance. And finally, in disgust, I just got out of my seat. I didn't say a word. I went right over to him and I put my hands right on his limb to adjust it. And the moment I touched it, I could taste inertia in my
13:52 -  mouth. This man beckoned to me, what I should do when I turn this thing till we achieve this piece. And then he had me to sit down alongside him. And he offered me a cigarette. And we try to carry on some kind of a conversation. It was the most pathetic and pitiful moment of my life.
14:09 -  We were trying to be brothers. And I knew that given the right circumstances, again, we would be rending each other's flesh. And you know, I was studying that man's face, because I believe that the man's character is written in its features. And I was looking
14:24 -  for all the telltale signs of barbarism and cruelty. See, because the same thing is going on now. Great rage, great hatred. Blacks are looking at calling us white devils and blue-eyed devils, and that we're capable of all kinds of horror. And you know that Satan can develop such
14:42 -  a mentality in a people that there'll come a time when they're able to throw each other into ovens without batting an eyelash and claiming that they're doing God a service. You know, I didn't see anything like that in that man's face. All I saw was just a very ordinary
14:57 -  Gentile face. And my heart broke. And you know, in that moment, I heard an inner voice that said, aren't there before the grace of God go you? It's only an accident that you were born in Brooklyn. It's only a caprice that you were born Jewish. You might just as easily have been born
15:11 -  in Germany, and then you would have been the one stoking the bodies into the oven. Whew. You know, I didn't cry out when that thought came to me. Oh no, not me. I'm a progressive. I'm concerned for mankind. I'm against exploitation in the imperialist, I belong to left-wing
15:27 -  organizations. My head just slumped on my chest, and I received what was the evident truth. Oh, I had never committed murder, but I knew I was quite capable of atrocity, because I had given looks that could kill, and I had spoken words that could kill, and I had raged and murdered in my
15:45 -  heart. Imagine what was going to happen years later, when I picked up the New Testament for the first time, and I looked in the lips of Jesus. He who's angry with his brother is a murderer already, and that man that looks at a woman lustfully has committed adultery with her in
15:59 -  his heart already. Something in my heart went ouch! Truth. It completely confirmed my experience. How do they have that depth of understanding was my question, but that was years to come. On the basis of that experience that day and that training that journey made, I resolved to
16:18 -  become a teacher. It was the wildest thing, because I was a high school drop-off. I was such a cut-up in New York, my formula was in the principal's office. I was a clown, because the real questions that I was dying to have answered were never even asked. They were playing with geometry,
16:33 -  with algebra, and other nonsense, and I was a dying man seeking for life. It never occurred to me that I should be a teacher, but when that thing clicked in my head, in that train, I thought, well Cass, you've found yourself at last. Because from 16 on,
16:50 -  I've been a merchant seaman. I'd worked in the streets, installing pipes. I'd broken concrete. I'd been a hitchhiker. I'd lived in California six different times. I had been through every kind of vocation in art, craft, and jewelry trade, and
17:02 -  relationship, and philosophy, and cause. I've been the route. I really believe that education was the answer. I don't care what men say about faith, but everyone has it, of one kind or another. You can't live without a faith of one kind or another.
17:19 -  My faith wasn't human intelligence. My faith was that education was the answer. My faith was that untainted and uncorrupted young people, if they had the proper kind of education, if they were really inspired, that together we could create a brave new world. I wasn't going to become a
17:33 -  teacher just to give kids information they could take tests and get grades. I was going to be a revolutionary and create a world in the classroom. We have a very patient God waiting, waiting for us to come to the end of ourselves. How long? And isn't that what's happened in our world history?
17:50 -  We're coming to the end of ourselves. All we've battled and struggled and we've striven to obtain material welfare and security. And isn't it fantastic that the very time that we've arrived and succeeded is when we're beginning to see that we've really failed. Our civilization is falling
18:06 -  apart. Our shallow culture is not enough. Demonic forces are loosed and strange currents are in the air and we're lurched out of orbit and we're dying. That's what happened to me as a man individually and that's what happened to the world collectively, because we don't know him.
18:25 -  To know him is life and the absence of him is death. I labored like a fool for four years as a high school teacher in California. My Jewish mother had been waiting so many years for Nahar. You know what that means?
18:40 -  She lived. Satisfaction. You know, their lives are so frustrated. They have so much misfortune. They struggle to save, to crimp them, to get their kids into schools and stuff like that. And my mother was waiting, especially for me, the black sheep of the family, that she should finally
18:56 -  have Nahar. And now she can say, my son, the professor. I allowed her a little exaggeration, you know. And she could throw out her chest with pride. She didn't know what I taught or why I taught, but she could say, my son, the professional. And just when I gave every appearance of succeeding,
19:15 -  finally, at the age of 34, when you would expect a man to do it, and I was being congratulated by my students and by my colleagues, I finally came to the realization that I was an utter and dismal failure. Because nothing fails like success. It was when I finally arrived and achieved my goals
19:33 -  that I realized that I was nowhere. And I began to suspect that these kids are not innocent and untainted and uncorrupted. Fantastic what human nature is. Whether it's seeking power, whether it's seeking performant, whether it's seeking wealth, or even when it's seeking
19:48 -  greed, how it will reveal itself. And I began to see how hollow, how cheap, how inadequate our humanist slogans are about human brotherhood, about our belief in human perfectibility, when I was getting a glimpse of nature as it really is. Oh, my kids could cry. They could
20:05 -  get excited about the Ashford. They can get a tear in the eye about some underprivileged people. But I saw them when they really lived. I knew them when they really trembled. And the great crisis was not by Ashford. The great crisis was being flat-chested. That was the real situation in a
20:24 -  person's life. That was where they tremble to live, or a pimple on a nose, or the failure of a boy to pick them up for a date, or inadequate horsepower for their cars, or their immediate future. You know, we adults needn't look down contemptuously on those kids, because we're
20:38 -  not one width better. How do we look when we go to the new car showrooms and open those doors, those builocks, and all those builocks and Pontiacs, and smell that upholstery and chrome, and we have such an ecstatic look on our face. Where your heart is, there are your treasures also.
20:53 -  As God looks down upon us, we're all children, every one of us, misspending our lives, seeking for the things that do not profit. I became so disillusioned when I began to see these realities, and the final crush was this.
21:10 -  I, who was so artful in speaking all of the slogans of the world, and whose heart palpitated for all of the oppressively exploited, and who could point this finger with self-righteous indignation as imperialist, I was beginning to see I was doing a pretty good job myself
21:24 -  of being an imperialist and an exploiter. The whole thing is in the human heart. What is imperialism, but what we carry on in our beds with our wives, with our children, with our colleagues. It's human dominance, it's possessiveness, it's the desire to assert
21:43 -  ourselves, and I was beginning to see that my classroom was not just a classroom, it was a miniature universe, and the same forces that raged outside were raging inside, and I had no answer. And I came to the end of myself, and I stopped teaching. I had nothing to offer my students,
22:00 -  but the sense of grief that I had for a world that was teeter-tottering on the brink of annihilation, and we had no answer. And I took a year's leave of absence. I remember talking to my best friend. I said, there's a reason for my taking this trip. I can't even understand. I feel a tremendous inner
22:14 -  compulsion to break every connection that I have, and just thrust myself out on a live stream and see what will happen. And I didn't travel first or second or third class. We teachers aren't that well paid. I traveled for 14 months as a hitchhiking bum, standing by the side of the road doing this.
22:31 -  And what an education I got in the drizzle and the rain as I watched those cars drive by, and I saw those blank masks and those slash lines for miles, whose consciences I had pricked because I was standing there, but they didn't have the courage to stop. And just before they got to me,
22:45 -  I'm sure that they were telling themselves about human brotherhood. It's not what we speak. It's not our glibunches phrases. It's the reality. But you know that strange people stop for me? I'll never forget a man who stopped for me in Switzerland in a brand new car,
23:00 -  and he didn't just wait behind the wheel and give us, hurry up, I'm doing you a favor. He got out of the car and he greeted me at the side of those beans from ear to ear. You can imagine what my first suspicion was.
23:16 -  And this man took my filthy rucksack. I was living out of a knapsack for 14 months. And the fantastic thing was I didn't use half the things that were in it. I was learning to live on one meal a day, and I was never healthier. And I caught a glimpse of just how glutted and crowded
23:31 -  and jammed our life is with goods and things. And we have every kind of excuse why we have to work, and our wives have to work, and we have to keep up with this and that, and we have no time. I would to God that you would know, every Jewish person that I spoke to, I don't have time
23:45 -  to inquire of the things that you're representing to me. Busy, busy, busy. This man took that filthy rucksack and told us that in the back seat of his car, and I wimped when it hit the new upholstery, and I looked at his face, he hadn't even noticed. I said to myself,
23:59 -  wasn't that hurt, man, is this? Everybody I know that gets a scratch on their bump or a fender, they're panic-stricken. And this guy, well, this car is just a mode of transportation. And he had me on the front seat and off we drove, and he made me feel like the exorbitant.
24:12 -  You can't make a man to feel like that unless you're something very authentic. And this man turned and looked at me, and you can see I wasn't a high school kid out on the lock, it was past the tour speaking. He said, why are you traveling like this, in German?
24:25 -  And so what else I could, I tried to explain. I was a modern man whose life was broken at its foundation. I was seeking for the deepest answers to life, and for some strange reason just came right out of my mouth. I told this man I was Jewish. That's something I didn't really share
24:38 -  with Gentiles. And I saw the most amazing reaction, where this guy began to glow like a neon tube, as if being Jewish was somehow something special. And every other Gentile just grunted or nodded or went silent or worse. This man insisted that we stop the refreshments at his expense.
24:53 -  And we had a conversation not long ago, but I'll never forget. If you're wondering, how do I speak the things of God and Christ to my Jewish neighbor and friend? Are you really loving? Is the love of God palpitating in your heart? Or are you afraid
25:09 -  to bring a friend? Sometimes the loving thing is to be willing to run the risk. This man was willing to take the risk with me. He loved me so much, although I was a stranger to him. And I didn't begin by him giving me all kinds of brittle answers in the four spiritual laws
25:24 -  that take me by the lapel, or show me John 3.16, or ask me if I'm in Washington, better land. I would have been immediately turned off. It began by me doing all the talking. He was the most wonderful listener I had ever met. No, he wasn't just hearing me. He was actually
25:40 -  receiving my grimy and painful life into his own. His hearing of my life was an act of love. And I found myself pouring out to the stranger details of my life that I had not shared with members of my own family and closest friends. And I finally came to the end of myself. I expressed
25:57 -  my loneliness, my exhaustion, my hopelessness, my futility. And I looked at this man and said, what is he going to tell me? Philosophy, ideologies, I'm led into the whole bit. There's nothing new under the sun. He said, Art, do you know what the world means?
26:11 -  I had that cynical expression on my face, like a devil building, to tell me what I said. He said, Art, what the world means is for men to wash one another's feet. I'll never forget when I heard that one other and something in my heart went pow!
26:28 -  And I began to stagger and reel back. I went speechless. I couldn't put two words together. My head was swimming. And before I could recover, I had a vision of all of the proud, arrogant people of the world bent, washing the feet of the lowly and the despised. And to my amazement, it wasn't
26:45 -  just the bourgeoisie or the middle class or the WASPs or the Caucasians or the Gentiles, but the outcasts of the world were down there. They were the arrogant but the contentious, strident voices filled with self-righteous indignation. And something cried out of my heart, Eureka,
27:01 -  can't this is it? Overnight, bloodlessly, by a spirit of humility and love, the world can be transformed. And the saliva began to run in my mouth, and this made me want to tell you about the gospel of Jesus Christ in Germany. I was 34 years old. I had lived an entire life in a so-called
27:20 -  Christian country, and I was hearing the gospel for the first time. No one had ever put a piece of literature in my hands. No one had ever spoken to me. And I wasn't just some insolated Jew living in a ghetto in Brooklyn. I was widely traveled. I had lived in California on six different occasions.
27:35 -  I had all kinds of Gentile friends and colleagues. No one had ever spoken to me. And the moment that he began to tell me the gospel, I knew I was hearing the words of truth. And at the same time, I had built this new Jesus, which shocked me. And I went on that road like I may have been bludgeoned
27:53 -  over the head, staggering under the impact of that encounter. And it wasn't long after, I was having other encounters just like that, with lady, born-again children of God. Are you patient? Can I tell you one more? Because I met a girl who was a Gentile. She was a Gentile. I actually had
28:09 -  a thing to do with this kid. I was twice her age to begin with, and she was obviously a wasp, and I found out in good order that she was from Kansas, and she was a Protestant, and she was everything that was a symbol to me of the world that I despised. But you know,
28:25 -  she had the same quality in her as that Swiss man. There was something about her that was magnetic. There was something so warm that drew me. And her friend had left her for the day. She was an American kid on vacation. And we went hand-in-hand, and we walked the woods around this European city.
28:39 -  And I was told that this kid knew this. And I said, look, how come you've been coming to me? How have you been afraid of me? I'm a stranger. And she was just answering these questions in a simple way, as you'd expect a fine Christian girl to do. And the more she spoke about God,
28:52 -  the more exasperated I was becoming. I don't like that kind of talk. And finally I said to myself, okay, kid, you've had it. I stopped, and I hitched up my shoes, and I thought I'm going to give her my famous sixty-four dollar question. Because when I
29:05 -  wanted to alleviate boredom, I would go out and find so-called Christians and engage them in debate and wipe them out. I had not yet found one who could really defend his convictions. So what was this little kid to me? I'd roll over her like a steamroller.
29:19 -  I said, my luck. And I got my engine all revved up. I said, you've been talking about God. I left him an unstuck of it. So just let me ask you one question. How do you know that God is? Here comes a little, brutal answer, you know, we learned in Sunday school.
29:33 -  I'll crush her. That kid didn't even hesitate for a moment. She looked up at me with that face. And she said, oh, she said, I know that God lives. He lives in me. And I happened to ask the woman. Stopped. Dead in its tracks. And the same thing happened again. My heart exploded. I could feel
29:54 -  the pieces flying around inside my chest. I sat in a room. I went speechless again. I was undone. And I said, what did she say? What was so powerful about that? What was so intellectual? What was so theological? And then it dawned on me what it was. It was simply true. God has called us to be a
30:12 -  light unto the world. And I saw the light and the life and the love beaming out of that simple gentile kid. And my heart was pierced through. I was twice that kid's age, twice as educated, twice as traveled. But I knew in that moment she was in the light and I was in the darkness.
30:32 -  You know that God says in Romans that he's waiting for you to move my Jewish people to jealousy? Not by your fantastic churches and cathedrals and eloquent ministers, but I tell you with a low-ceiling place just like this and a high-ceiling voice just like, like here.
30:56 -  I can say it because I love him and he knows it. This is the beautiful freedom that we're having, Christ. I knew this was a church that speaks the truth. I tell you that any Jewish person walking into this atmosphere tonight knows that this is not
31:16 -  just religion. There's something here. There's a warmth and a love and a presence. It's life. It's God. And that's what I recognized in that girl. And you know just a few weeks after that, above the deck of the trans-duma, I was a deck passenger, the cheapest way to go.
31:32 -  I was on my way from Italy to Greece. I was more of a Greek than I was a Jew because I worshiped human intellect. I exalted man, which really means we're worshiping ourselves. And just what happened above the deck of that ship, stuck together with bums and homosexuals and drifters and lost men,
31:50 -  you should have seen the things that were mentioned on that deck. Three days and nights, and I met a Jewish man like myself who was a seeker of the truth. And some little church had been giving out New Testaments on the waterfront when he got a ship in the water and he got one. When I
32:04 -  learned that he had it, I said, send me that Bible, please. You know, guys, I had never heard the Bible in my life, as I told you. And I was never interested in reading the Bible. I wouldn't even read a tract, I don't suppose. But for the first time, I was really curious to open this book,
32:17 -  only because of the lines that had been encountering mine and speaking to me about God and Christ. And I found myself a place by that bulkhead. I slipped to the deck. There was a porthole over my shoulder. Inside, the well-paying passengers were living it up. And their laughter was coming
32:31 -  out of the nightstand. We bums were huddled together for lunch. And in that atmosphere, I read that book. So he came as a physician to those who are sick. And I was a man who was sick in my soul. And at the moment I started reading that book, I knew this book was different from
32:46 -  any book I had previously read. It had such a compelling authority. And I was so drawn to the personality of Jesus. I didn't know who he was. But I knew in my heart that everything that he represented was everything that the world desperately needed. I understood immediately why
32:59 -  he was in conflict. Nothing was broken in the laws of the world, but those who were presumptuous and proud and religious, for whom he was a friend. He had been making those fantastic claims. I never heard a Jew speak like that. He allowed men to follow the street and worship him and call
33:15 -  him Lord. And I didn't know a Jew would ever allow that. We won't even spell the word God. We'll spell G dash D. And he was just allowing men to worship him. And he said, if you see me, you'll see the Father. I am the Father of one. And he said he hadn't come to distort the law,
33:29 -  he had come to fulfill the law. I said, this is the most unspeakable presumption, chutzpah, that I've ever heard. Maybe he is who he claims to be. And I came to that episode where that woman was taken in the arms of a goat. Remember that? And she was swung at his feet and these self-righteous
33:50 -  men were bristling with anger and they had the opportunity to do them in and the foam was swimming in their mouths, their eyes were ablaze. And I said, okay, right guy. I mean, I could just sense the delight in having the opportunity to do them in. Jesus is infuriating, even to this day,
34:06 -  to those who want to keep their little kingdoms intact. All he makes is stand revealed and naked by his beautiful holiness, his impeccable character, that Nazarene. He is not the Jesus that the New Testament represented on black velvet with sequins
34:21 -  that's turned us Jews off for generations with blond hair and a straight nose. He is a Jewish Jesus. He's a suffering Jesus. He's a real messiah who came to lay down his own life. We could believe that kind of Jesus. And I didn't even know that Jesus was a Greek name
34:36 -  and that his Hebrew name is Yeshua. From the name Joshua, God saves. Yeshua ha'mashiach. If I had only known that, let nobody tell me. I thought we Jews had our religion. He jumped off a cliff. Red had Jesus to be with me.
34:57 -  And I thought, well, I've got him now. He said he'd come to fulfill the law. And the law says death by stoning. What could he say? I was afraid of him. I closed the book. My heart was racing and the sweat was oozing out of my hands. I was so scared for him because he
35:11 -  was a new hero. I felt something clicking in my heart. I didn't want to see him go. But what can he say? I thought we'll catch you. What would you say? And did I rack my brain? I turned up every IQ that I had. And I don't know how long it took me. I leaned back, finally exhausted. I realized
35:26 -  there was no human answer. And I really expected the worst. And I opened up that book and described Jesus bent over the earth poking his feet in the dirt with his eyes ablaze and this woman weeping at his feet. And he looked up and he spoke that one line. Let him who is without sin cast the
35:43 -  first stone. That line came up off the page and penetrated my eyes. And something started to go up into my brain and my body began to shake and to quake. And fantastic thing that didn't stop in my brain. I thought my brain knew everything. That's where I lived. But something
36:00 -  began to turn down where I really lived. Out of the heart proceeded all the issues of life. And something was turning and cutting and running like a knife blade digging deep, deep, deep into the innermost being. And it cut through every issue over which I'd ever agonized all my life.
36:14 -  What is truth? I used to cry out. What is justice? What is mercy? What is righteousness? And when that knife blade hit home, I knew in a single moment of time, I was an atheist just a moment before, there's a living God no man could ever have conceived or spoken of. That's a divine
36:31 -  utterance. There's a living God and I'm reading from his word and Jesus is who he claims to be. Do you know that the word of God is quick, powerful and sharp as any two-edged sword so they're cutting the center of the soul and the spirit? And God clues me in two on the death of
36:47 -  that ship. And I wish I could say to you that when I recognized that there's a living God and that Jesus is my Messiah that I called Hallelujah, but I didn't. I was embarrassed to death. I was mortified. What am I going to do now? What do I tell my mother? And
37:07 -  what would I say to my intellectual friends? How embarrassing. My last statement that I had made at our faculty meeting in California, I rose to my feet with an angry statement and I said, we need a revolution. And now I'm going to return to the same
37:21 -  faculty and tell them that I believe in Jesus as a Messiah, that the Bible, the inside word of God and that I'm one with his fundamentals. God was calling me to die and I didn't want to. I wanted to continue being Lord. I claimed to be the seeker of the truth,
37:39 -  but I want the truth which was convenient and fitting to my philosophy and my system. But our God is not in that business. He is the truth and the way and the life and we had better fit into his system. And I wrestled against God for another four or five months. I had a fantastic
37:58 -  experience in Egypt with the Jewish communities representing the New Zealand and the New Holland to Israel. I was on one side of the land and the other living kibbutz in the city, searching, searching. And in Jerusalem, I found a Jewish boy that had come to know nine months earlier.
38:10 -  We left this ship in New York together and in nine months he had become an Orthodox Jew. And I told him that Jesus was wooing me, breathing down my neck. He got scared and he had me stay at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and he gave me a bed and I went to the library every day to put
38:24 -  books in my hands. I spoke to the professor and the more I read and the more I spoke, the more I became convinced that the beauty of it and the truth of it was unspeakable. You know, this is the same Jewish boy who has since become a rabbi. And when I came from Kansas
38:39 -  City, New York, just a few months later, I assumed that I'm responsible for the outreach to two and a half million Jews in New York. I hope you can pray for us. My first day in New York in front of Columbia University distributing traps. Who do I meet? Rabbi.
38:56 -  My life had gone in different directions in six and a half years. When I stayed with him that night, we went to a synagogue, we were up till four in the morning. I stayed with him the next night and was sharing the things of God, how God had been using me to
39:08 -  bring healing and deliverance. I've seen people hear from epilepsy, from cancer, from blood conditions, people delivered from anxieties and fears and distresses and just the most fantastic miracles. And I'm just an ordinary believer in the name of Jesus. And that next morning
39:28 -  we had breakfast together in his room, bagels and, you know, the whole thing. And somebody's looking as well. And he took down a little prayer book at the meal. I said, look, how about if I just pray out of my heart? Do you think I'll be just as acceptable in God? He said yes. So I prayed
39:43 -  and the moment I thought of the Spirit of God took hold of my prayer and I began to weep. And I prayed for him and Jewish men like him that God would make them true rabbis of Israel, true teachers of Israel, that the light of God would come into their lives.
39:57 -  And when I finished praying, this guy looked at me, his eyes were like that. He said, Artie said, here I am an Orthodox rabbi and I can't play for certain that I believe that God even exists. And he says, you're a Jew in the tradition of Elijah. Is that the only way to be a Jew?
40:17 -  The only kind of Jew that God has ever contemplated. One who is bold for the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Elijah said, as the Lord my God liveth before whom I stand, it shall not reign, but according to my word. And I tell you what the weight of apostasy is again upon us. And God is
40:36 -  looking for Elijah, men who are going to be moved by the word of God, which will be immediate to obey when he tells them that he can go see them by ravens. And who will confront the Ahab to this world without the slightest trembling and fear because they know that the God before whom they
40:54 -  stand lives. So he put me on a bus one day, six and a half years ago in Jerusalem, a train boy, to visit a Hasidic Jewish community. Pious Jews, I never got there. Put me on the wrong bus. I got lost. And I was in a section of Jerusalem. I didn't know. I'd taken that bus many times
41:10 -  around town in Jerusalem. I don't know how it happened. Moving to this day, it was pointless to go on. I walked out of that bus and I walked into the first day I could find him. The woman made me laugh and I was just about to leave. I noticed there's a bookstore. And I took a look
41:20 -  at the time I was in. I stopped dead in my tracks. It said New Testament, Bibles, and Christian commentaries. I turned and looked at that woman's Jewish face. I said, what is this place? She said, what a congregation of Hebrew Christians, Jewish believers in the Messiah. And this is our bookstore
41:36 -  adjoining our chapel. Did you hear that? That's what I heard in my heart, like Kenny. And I heard a still small voice that said, ought you not to leave. I like to obey that still small voice. And I stayed for five days with these Jewish believers. It was a Pentecostal congregation of
41:54 -  Jews. I didn't know what the word meant. But I saw Jews praying with such power and with such authority as if they really knew God. I saw the manifestation of the supernatural God in their midst. And when I saw them worship with their hands above their heads, I thought, that's it,
42:17 -  that's the clincher. You can't learn that in Sunday school. You can't do that by rote. Something has got to happen in here, and that's the result of the overflowing heart that truly knows God. And they were giving me a Bible course for four days. They were praying over me
42:34 -  with me, opening up the scriptures, showing me the prophecies in the Old Testament, fulfilling the news. And I went to sleep that fourth night, agitated over my skull, sleeping in a front pew of their chapel, trying by the palm of my intellect to put all the pieces in their place,
42:44 -  and it didn't work. And in my sleep that night, something happened. Something fell on my heart, like click, click, click. And I woke up the next morning with a wonderful sense of peace and calm the first time in 35 agitated years. And I came to that breakfast table and I said to that Jewish
42:59 -  woman in the spirit-filled face of God, Rainer, I believe I understand. And when that woman heard me say understand, she fell out of her seat onto the floor not to cheer over with her hands above her head. She was praising God. And her tears were rolling down her face because her prayer that
43:13 -  night had been, Lord, we've done everything with this other name. You make them to understand. Lord God showed me my sleep that night. He would take me by the hand as a child. Unless you come as a child, you're not, you can't enter the kingdom of God.
43:31 -  My intellect, my presumption, my pride, my experience had nothing to do with it. And he was really step by step, encounter by encounter, was he would pick me up off the sun, Lord. He had put his book in my hand. He had brought me to this crossroad in Jerusalem. And now it was put up or
43:47 -  shut up, receive or reject. I could have made a lot of excuses. I didn't understand the virgin birth. I didn't understand the Trinity, a lot of theological difficulties. But I understood only too well who it was who was speaking to me out of the pages of this book. He lives. He's a living
44:02 -  Messiah. He speaks as no Jew ever spoke. He said, out of his sin you see the Father. I am the Father one and art. No man ever comes to the Father except you come by me. I bent my neck that day. Oh, it was hard to get the words out of my mouth. First prayer in 35 years. I never bent my neck to
44:21 -  anyone. Proud, arrogant, but I was bending it before the only one who deserves our complete loyalty, our allegiance, our heart, our life. The God of all this world, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and the Messiah Jesus. And I said, Lord, have me. I don't even understand
44:40 -  fully what you did on that cross, but I receive it. Forgive me and cleanse me and come in and possess this life and do with me as it pleases you. I didn't feel a thing after that prayer. But from that day on, day by day, I began to sense something new working in my heart and life.
44:55 -  I couldn't curse for the life of me. I couldn't get angry. My bit of vocabulary just went blank and God was working in meeting a new character, new personality in me. Gentiles have been a blessing in my life. Those who feel the Spirit of God and know Him.
45:17 -  When I returned to the teaching profession, I lost every one of my friends. They had a get together for me that first night back in California. And they had one of their hot intellectual discussions and I was completely out of it for the first time. And about midnight, someone came to me and said,
45:31 -  what's with you usually when you stick to these discussions? I said, I'm sorry, but I just realized that this discussion is completely relevant to life. I had never seen that before. It was like hair splitting over something totally inconsequential. And they said,
45:46 -  oh, well, what do you think is consequential to life? What do you think is relevant to life? I had just that day in the Greyhound bus, said, Lord, I said, this is yet too new for me. I don't want to botch it up here. I'm going to keep my mouth shut.
46:06 -  But the word had gotten out that something had happened to art. And the whole conversation ceased and the Lord turned to look at me and I began to relate my experience and how I came to the discovery or how He came to discover me and what had happened in
46:19 -  my life. And I tell you, their eyes just got larger sources and their jaws dropped. I was told that I had gone off the deep edge and that I looked like a psychiatrist. And everyone was telling me that there were people who were seeing psychiatrists one or two times a week. And I was sitting there
46:34 -  with a beautiful piece of God in my heart, and various people cheating on each other and their wives and husbands and every filthy thing to advance themselves in the academic world. And I'm the only one sitting there with a piece of me, all agitated, disgusted when I was seeing
46:46 -  psychiatrists and they're telling me that I freaked out and went off the deep end. Every one of those people came to me, some with disdaining contempt and some with real anger and one with real hatred. The only one who remained was my Jewish friend, Art Goldberg, and he was just
47:01 -  going to tolerate me, you know, humor me. I'll come out of this, you know, I've been a Marxist, I'll come out of this too. But God saved him before he died in this meaningful accident. And God made a new teacher out of me. Things began to happen in the classroom,
47:16 -  but not before a certain zone took place. It wasn't long before I realized, but even with my new birth experience, I didn't have the quality of love and compassion, power to make the needs of students five times a day coming in against my wife. These kids didn't want
47:32 -  to be in my class. Someone had the ugliest kind of homeless that you can describe flushed out in the streets to prostitute, to provide drugs with their fathers, so they could get to sleep with their fathers. I'm the most knotted and twisted lives, and he is serving instruments of history. I was
47:47 -  trying to reach them for God. Oh, I was broken by my inadequacy. I needed all that fullness of God, and I was crying out for this precious baptism in the Holy Spirit, and I was not getting it. And I began to think that maybe God doesn't bless these self-conscious intellectual types,
48:04 -  and that's the price I have to pay, you know. But one night there wasn't even a church, it was in a home. We've got to meet God's conditions. We've got to be in one spirit, in one accord. It's got to be faith which works by love. When we meet God's conditions,
48:20 -  we'll have his perfect answer. He's not changed. He's the same Book of Acts God. We've changed. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. And I was in a home in Northern California, way out there in the sticks. There wasn't a Jew from around the world. It was a little community,
48:37 -  and these people, Gentiles, they all love the Jews. That's why I was with them. They knew more about Jewish life and culture than I did. They were studying Hebrew. They were making plans to live in Israel. I said, how come you have this love for the Jews? And this woman said to me,
48:48 -  I don't know. She said, but I know that our God loves your people, and that the group that we have, his love in us. We love you also. Did you know that the Jew is God's parameter for the Gentile believer? How are you feeling about the Jewish people tonight? Because in the natural,
49:03 -  we don't commend ourselves to you. You are much too successful to be liked. Right? You've got a one way to explain your love. It's supernatural. That's God's perfect way. And in that beautiful atmosphere of love, we've been speaking about the things of God. It's time
49:23 -  to go home. We all stick to our feet, and somebody says to her, okay, Bob, you pray. And if anybody wants to follow, let them do so. I go, but not me. I'm too self-conscious. At that time, one of the self-conscious Christians who didn't like to pray a lot,
49:34 -  even said, grace at the table. And so Bob prayed, and nobody made a move to leave. And I began to think of a strange something happening in the atmosphere, like a hush and a presence came into that room. And then Bob commenced praying again in tongues. And one by
49:48 -  one, they all followed. And I had my eyes closed, and I was beginning to cry. And it sounded to me like I was in an ancient synagogue, and we were waiting in Hebrew. And I was a man who wasn't given to crying. I could count the times on the fingers of one hand. I was so hard. I had been
50:02 -  through so much. I had been knocked from toe to post. I had been betrayed by women. I was a rock. And I was weeping because of the presence of God. And their prayer stopped, and they all with one voice turned to a Jewish girl, an Israeli girl who had just received the baptism on the weekend before.
50:18 -  They said, I believe, Jaffa, that you had a little hand in art. Well, I was in no competition with that girl as a Jewish believer. But I went right down on my hands and knees on that living room floor. I didn't care what I was like. I was so desperate. I needed God so badly. And my prayer
50:33 -  that day was, Lord, except you touch me, except you bless me, I die. That's what he was waiting for. I had to get the dress out of my life, my funny crack about tears, my anguishings at the altar. I knew now what I was really doing. I was looking for a spiritual status symbol.
50:50 -  I just want to say, well, I received the baptism myself. I'm here. You think God's going to un-crowding murder us like that? He's got to work with what a patient loving God until we divest ourselves of all that and we're so deaf, Lord, except you touch me,
51:05 -  I perish. The moment the black girl touched me, something broke from around my chest. It felt like bands being loose. And I began to suck air as if I had never truly breathed. Just taking it in a great gulp, and I was weaving uncontrollably. I knew that if God had touched me, even I owed him more.
51:23 -  I would have died. I could not have taken the glory of it. And in that same moment, something collapsed around my heart, and God made me know that it was a wall. And that wall was a lifetime accumulation of resentment and anger and bitterness that had been stored up in my heart
51:37 -  and coagulated and become hard and developed as a rock around my heart, between my heart and the heart of God. And the texture of it collapsed. And for the first time in my life, my hands were above my head. I didn't care what I looked like. The water was running down my face, my nose,
51:52 -  my ears. I was sobbing, choking, and fluttering. I didn't care. And I was praying to God for the strength of freedom and exhilaration. And whenever he even thought of my crime, out came the spilt and this granulated junk that was breaking up into pieces and flushed out of my mouth until I
52:10 -  stood before God, with my hands above my head, immaculate within. And in that minute, something literally men rolled up within me and began to rise up. I knew it was the Spirit of God. I knew it was love. And when I reached my head, my English language probably out came the language
52:26 -  of heavenly praise. From that day to this, I've been God's fool. God took out of my heart by one touch, resentment, anger, bitterness, all the kinds of things that are sweeping over our earth today, between the races, between generations, on our university campuses, in our cities,
52:48 -  in the nations of the world. We need God. We need the morality of the living God. We need to be touched of him. And you know how it works? I wonder why God saved me. I know that he had blessed me through the ministry of Gentile people who were taking me up off the road, who had laid hands on
53:05 -  me, who had brought me into the baptism of the Holy Spirit. But one day in the church in California, I was giving this testimony, and when I finished, some people came over. And among them was a really cold Gentile woman, nothing special to look at. She said, Mr. Kempf, you don't know me,
53:17 -  Brother Kempf? But you had my daughter when you first began taking her to high school. And she used to come home from school every afternoon, weeping over you, knowing that you were a radical and an atheist. Your kind of prayer touches God. He sets you a fervent prayer
53:35 -  of righteous men and women. It's not your pump that's freshly emitting, which soon enough subsides. It's the burden and the passion of God, which is manifest in the life of that person who is walking with him righteously. Let's begin to praise him, shall we? For everything that is
53:54 -  there to praise, let's wave our hands and exalt the Lord, create the conditions, fulfill his word. God inhabits the praises of his people. Did you know that Judah means praise and that to be a Jew spiritually is to have that heart circumcised that enables us for the first time to worship him
54:21 -  in spirit and in truth. Shall we give him praise? Hallelujah. Glory to thy wonderful name. We praise and magnify the name of the living God. We thank you for the Messiah whom thou hast sent. We exalt the name of Jesus. It's that name above every name where the man may be saved.
54:42 -  Hallelujah, gracious God. We worship you. We praise and we wait on you after that day. When every knee will bend and every mouth confess that Yeshua is Lord, I don't know, to the glory of God the Father.