Agenda for Biblical People

00:00 -  What we had thought to do was to have a discussion based around some of the statements in what I consider to be an enormously significant book written by a young man, I think I made some reference to him earlier in these days, who went from the seminary to the establishing
00:20 -  of a community in the inner city in Washington, D.C. to test the reality of the Gospel, to see if the Kingdom can be a present reality in the thick of a black ghetto of hopelessness and despair.
00:35 -  Out of their experience that God has tempered in them has come this little book and a magazine which they produce called Sojourners. You can almost start from the first page of this little book and read your way through
00:51 -  it. places throughout the book, but I just feel like leaping in to a statement that he makes on page 36, and by the way I think you ought to take the title and get yourself a copy
01:05 -  and circulate it around your own fellowships and chew on it. You'll not find everything digestible. He has a kind of social concern that doesn't seem to be characteristic of many of us, but
01:22 -  he has also an insight into the reality of the Kingdom, the meaning of the Church. The name of the writer is Jim Wallace, W-A-L-L-I-S, and the book is called Agenda for Biblical People, published by Harper and Row, so it should not be difficult to obtain.
01:44 -  Jim Wallace, W-A-L-L-I-S, Agenda for Biblical People, Harper and Row. I don't think that I'm exaggerating too much to say that it's almost something like the Magna Carta of the Body of Christ or the Communist Manifesto, so to speak, for the believers
02:04 -  of our generation. I've not read anything more pointed, more challenging about the meaning of our faith than what this young man has expressed.
02:17 -  You know, the way God has a manner of putting something in your hand at the propitious time. It seems that just as our hearts were becoming kindled for the reality of the Kingdom, bang, this book came.
02:31 -  I had just returned from weeks overseas with one powerful conviction that the Gospel of the Kingdom of God needed to be proclaimed in the Church first before it's proclaimed in the world, that the Church does not understand or know the Gospel.
02:59 -  And probably one of the most stunning observations that came to me through the course of those weeks staying in the homes in different countries of ministers was the shock to see that when they made their decisions and their fundamental choices, they were made on exactly the same
03:18 -  basis by which the world makes theirs. That there was enormous disparity between what men preached on Sunday and what was the actual constitution of their life.
03:31 -  That when it came to the security of their family or their future or the future of their children, they made their decisions as any solid middle class burger would make it anywhere. In a word, they did not make their decisions on the basis of a kingdom.
03:49 -  It showed that their lives were really effectually lived in the world and that their Sunday religion was some kind of an appendage, something tacked on, a kind of a ceremonial something, a word game, and not really the platform or the foundation of their actual lives.
04:10 -  I think that's a description not only of ministers but by and large Christendom, for which reason we have not had the impact in the world that God intends. Here's what he says, the environmental facts of our life have become more determinative
04:29 -  of our style of life than our identity as Christians. This problem is most crucial for in a situation of widespread social conformity, the lifestyle of those in the churches becomes evidence for the view held by many that the gospel
04:48 -  does not transform people's lives but is a mere appendage which provides religious sanction and justification to lives really lived on other grounds. I have to look at your faces to see if you're comprehending.
05:08 -  Some of these statements deserve and require second and third repetitions. The environmental facts of our lives have become more determinative of our style of life than our identity as Christians.
05:23 -  I think I'm in a better position to perceive this perhaps than you because you know what I notice in my travels, whether I'm in Yugoslavia or Germany or Denmark or Holland or England or the States, the nationality of the believers has more to do with their lifestyle and character
05:41 -  than the fact that they are Christians. They are Dutch Christians, they are German Christians, they are English Christians and the fact that they are Dutch, German and English has more to say and more to do with their
05:54 -  effectual lifestyle than the fact that they are Christians. For example, the English are very parsimonious, that means stingy. You'll come to an English household as a guest for dinner and they will serve you the plate.
06:17 -  They will put on the plate the portion of meat, vegetables, potatoes and so on and serve it to you. That's it.
06:23 -  Very different from our lifestyle which is more or less everything is on the table, you help yourself and I notice that when it comes to offerings and love offerings in response to speakers, in some churches we got like $30 and that was a matter of fact.
06:43 -  Their whole style of life is scaled down, they're very parsimonious, stingy, everything is measured by teaspoons because English society itself is conducted in that manner. Whereas conversely in America we're accustomed to a much more freewheeling and commodious
07:04 -  style of life. The kind of square footage for example that we think that we need for adequate space for living is maybe twice that which is required in England.
07:15 -  In England if you've got a cubicle in which you can put a couch and a chair and have a table in which you can put your teapot, that's adequate. Here's my point, neither is the parsimoniousness right nor the largesse of American life if
07:32 -  the determination has been the culture in which those things are enacted. But the question is, what is the culture of the Kingdom of God? None of us have ever asked the question or thought that there is an alternative to being
07:49 -  English, German, French or something else and I think that God is wanting to bring us to a place and to a situation that where so ever we travel in the world and meet others of the same kingdom, there is an immediate and instant identification that transcends
08:06 -  the culture of our given localities. If you understand what's being said here, it's an answer of the deepest kind for the things that have brought profound division between God's people because they happen
08:22 -  to be black or white, northern or southern, rural or urban, American or English. I believe that what God wants as a final testimony in the earth is a transcendent culture that is visible, demonstrative, tangible, it can be handled.
08:42 -  Remember what John said, the word of life which we have handled, he wasn't some ephemeral ghost that you glimpse from afar, they handled him. As we say in Yiddish, he was zachtik, he was juicy, he was pulsating, he was something,
08:59 -  he was phenomenal, he wasn't just a spiritual entity walking on eggshells, he was a total man and God is calling us also to a total and a transcendent kind of culture. That very much is incorporated in the cry, repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
09:20 -  I hope I'm not going to weary you by my repetitions but this has this, the power, the burning meaning of that apostolic cry is so with me that it has ruined me for Jewish evangelism. I just can't get excited for Jews for Jesus and B'nai this or that or all the other cutesy
09:40 -  approaches to Jews that is affected by the wearing of stars of David and other kinds of little gitchy goose. I mean it's cute and maybe you'll win a peripheral Jew so long as you'll assure him that there's
09:54 -  no risk in the loss of his Jewishness. I want to assure them that there's every risk. Not only of their Jewishness as they've noted but of their very life that God is calling
10:10 -  up to something that transcends and that the key to it is to follow him in death and burial and be raised with him to newness of life. To ascend up to the throne and to have the actuality of our being established there.
10:31 -  You guys can think me maniacal if you want but I am absolutely persuaded that Paul was serious when he said that he had a citizenship in heaven. You know Paul is something else again.
10:45 -  When you read Paul, when you get the sense of his personality, you don't get any sense of a rabbinical man. Somehow however deeply ensconced he was one time in that Judea culture, and he was, however
10:59 -  great his future in it might have been, he was so profoundly converted that the apostolic giant that comes forth out of the pages of the New Testament is not in any way characteristically Jewish as we have ever understood that word.
11:13 -  He's a new kind of entity altogether. He's larger than life and therefore we see a man who can enter the synagogues and dispute with the Jews and is equally comfortable and at home on Mars Hill with the Greeks.
11:27 -  There's nothing for which he was out of place because he was the citizen of another kingdom. This problem is most crucial for in a situation of widespread social conformity the lifestyle of those in the churches becomes evidence for the view held by many that the gospel
11:44 -  does not transform people's lives but is a mere appendage, something tacked on which provides religious sanction and justification to lives really lived on other grounds. When Paul was at Athens it says that his spirit winced as he saw the city wholly given to
12:06 -  him, therefore disputed he in the synagogues with the Jews and in the marketplace with the devout persons who came unto him. What are devout persons doing in the marketplace and why is a man who has been cut by idolatry
12:22 -  dispute with Jews in the synagogues? Because it is a statement of a whole world and a system ruled over by a prince of darkness which is in utter opposition to another kingdom and if you want to come to the crossroads
12:41 -  of that system you'll find it in the marketplace and in the synagogues of the Jews. You'll find it in the universities and in the places of culture and refinement. Not only in the synagogues of the Jews as I said the other day at the university but
12:58 -  the synagogues of the Gentiles, one and the same. I'll tell you that the Jewish ministers and the Presbyterian ministers and Methodist ministers and all of the others of that ilk are virtually interchangeable.
13:12 -  You can swap them and their congregations would not even look up and note the difference. They're all equally as antiseptic, they're all equally as removed from God, they're all equally religious functionaries providing a minimal service for people who want religious
13:31 -  cop-out. And we have not impressed the world that the church is anything else but that. That's the point he's making here.
13:43 -  We're a mere appendage, something packed on a Sunday afterthought but our lives are really lived not on gospel grounds but on other grounds. Let me just give you a contrast out of the book of Acts in the fourth chapter.
14:01 -  29th verse, here's a band of believers whose life is so lived on other grounds that they are incompatible with the world about them, with the Jewish society from which, out of which they were converted.
14:23 -  Remember what Peter said on the day of Pentecost? How do we say it? And save yourself from this untoward and perverse generation.
14:35 -  How many of us have the powerful conviction that this generation is untoward and perverse? In fact, one of the first things that God is doing with us is cleansing us from our own perversities.
14:53 -  It's going to have a holy people, sinless and unblameable. The fact that we have not been alarmed by the world shows that we ourselves have been too accommodated to it.
15:09 -  Unlike Paul, our spirits have not winced because we've been watching the box too much and endorsing its values too much. This apostolic band was something else.
15:29 -  They experienced almost an immediate persecution. And I think that persecution, there's a phrase in Latin, sin qua non, how do you say it? It is the essential necessity, a requisite of true faith.
15:50 -  I don't think that persecution is an accidental happenstance or it's reserved for those behind the Iron Curtain. The moment that Paul and Silas cast out the demon spirit, in one who made her masters
16:03 -  much gain, in that same moment they were brought into the marketplace before the magistrates and the rulers and were publicly disrobed and beaten, and it says the whole mob rose up together against them.
16:19 -  Dear children, if I could just deposit one conviction in your souls this morning, you know what it would be? That there are two kingdoms in absolute and uncompromising collision.
16:34 -  We need to sense that and to realize that. Although the conflict is often masked and subdued, that we don't see it in its true proportions though it is always in opposition and collision.
16:48 -  And at the very end of the age, that mask is coming off and the sparks are going to be struck and it's going to be teethed again, gnashed upon believers, and great vexation and distress and anger and bitterness, when the Gospel shall become the controversy that
17:06 -  it indeed is and ought to be before all men. And that's a manby-pamby little kind of thing that is a polite appendage to our culture and takes the rough edges off and gives us a little polite Sunday experience to which
17:24 -  all our children should be brought for Sunday school. If Satan can't destroy something by actual opposition, he'll destroy it by widespread acceptance.
17:38 -  Covenant is a profound act of cutting that is mortifying, humiliating, and draws blood and was the seal of a radical covenant with God. And today, the whole world accepts it as mere hygiene.
17:58 -  If you can't beat him, join him. For he was a persecuted band who could not be joined because no man dared join himself to them.
18:10 -  The awe of God was so great upon the church. It wasn't a little Sunday club thing that you might consider filing your membership or that you entered by accepting Jesus.
18:24 -  You entered it by dying through everything. To enter this was to sign your death warrant. You were finished.
18:33 -  And for what reason then should you clutch your possessions, your homes? You had cast your lot with the people of God to suffer what they will suffer in anticipation of the hope and the glory of this coming.
18:48 -  By the way, may I ask this? How many of God's people today are living in anticipation of the hope? Isn't it strange to consider that those that were 2,000 years farther removed from the
19:04 -  hope live in its expectation and those of us who are 2,000 years closer? And even now the platitude, that's what it's become, of the coming of the Lord, the soon coming of the Lord, he's coming soon, it's become a platitude, are not actually living
19:20 -  in the hope. You say, how do you know what? Well, if we were, we would be palpitating less over our clothing, over our summer vacations,
19:30 -  over our security, over our orange juice, over whatever it is that occupies our lives. We'd be living in the hope. And that's another kind of living.
19:41 -  I hope you're not getting the impression that you're being boiled out this morning. See how much nicer we were eating bagels at the same time? Acts 429, and now, Lord, behold their threatenings, and grant unto thy servants that with all
20:02 -  boldness they may speak thy word, by stretching forth thine hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may be done by the name of thy holy child Jesus. And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together.
20:24 -  I just challenge you to study the word together. From the first verses of the Book of Acts and right through, just study the word together. And I want to say this just to help you in that study.
20:38 -  It doesn't mean what we think it means in colloquial present-day English usage. Together is more than physical proximity. Together, in the biblical sense, is a profound state of being, so unparalleled in the experience
21:00 -  of mere earthlings that it cannot be known, and it's a condition that can only be affected by the very power and life of God and by the Spirit. That's why the room was shaken.
21:15 -  They had come into a profound new condition of being, which is called together. First thing that God has got us to do with us is to get us together. Get it together, cats.
21:32 -  Get your whole life reconciled. I'm the full of man, mind, body, soul, and spirit flowing together by the Spirit of Life. End your own disharmonies and your own internal warfares and your own conflicts where flesh
21:45 -  and spirit are in contention. Get together, and you get together with those whom God has joined you, being knit by the Spirit.
21:55 -  And as you've heard last night, I think as much was said that was intimated and left between the lines as was actually spoken. I enjoyed last night enormously.
22:08 -  Would to God that it could have gone on for hours, and there was that much to say. And everyone that got up to speak, I thought to myself, wow, these people only knew the whole story.
22:20 -  And our experience is yet relatively brief. The whole history of the community is three to four years old, and as you heard from some of them, they've been only here a year, two years, three years.
22:30 -  But the depths of God's dealings, what it has taken, and who's to say that we've arrived? We're not yet together in the sense that our presence will cause the room to be shaken. But we're moving that way.
22:46 -  And I can tell you it takes something to bring people to the place where they are together. And that something is the cross of Christ Jesus. That something is pain.
22:58 -  That something is suffering. That something is disappointment and the deepest kind of disillusionment. How I have disillusioned people myself.
23:08 -  You know what the worst disillusionment is? Yourself with yourself. Seeing things you would never have glimpsed if you had not been thrown on a daily basis
23:24 -  into the most intense experience of life with other souls. That's why the Kingdom cannot be affected on Sunday. I just want to make a flat pronouncement.
23:40 -  If you have an intention for the Kingdom of God, you might as well forget it if you think that it's going to be established by mere Sunday fellowship. They went from house to house daily breaking bread, and I can just say, and being broken.
24:02 -  I tell you it's the episodes over the orange juice and the little mundane trivialities that are really the sand and the grit of God that is used to make us into a people that can be together.
24:18 -  What you did not hear last night seeing our beaming faces, were the crises to which God had brought us when we were not beaming. When our chins were scraping the ground.
24:29 -  When we were so utterly discouraged and downcast and depressed that we couldn't even go on. And that if there was any way out we would have taken it. But where shall we go?
24:38 -  He had the words of life. We were trapped. He had us.
24:42 -  And because there was no place to go, and we had nothing to do but to just eat this death. Out of ground zero, out of utter despair, if you can picture some of the same people
24:54 -  you heard last night on their faces before God for 13 hours in a living room together, you'll have a picture of what was our final condition. So out of it, so bereft of anything to say or do, whether to be clever, religious or
25:10 -  spiritual, or to play at the body of Christ, that all we could do was occasionally whimper before ground. We were talked out, we were prayed out, and then God began to do something.
25:25 -  In a day, a nation was born, the same people who dreaded to be with each other in the morning by that night did not want to leave each other. God did it.
25:40 -  Together is something that God does, when there will be people who will yield themselves to Him, willing that He should break all of their earthly ties and connections, bringing them out of the culture of this present world into His.
25:58 -  When they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spoke the Word of God with boldness, till we all come.
26:10 -  Either we're going to come all, or we're not going to come at all. This has been a trial of my patience because I'm constituted to be quick and impetuous and want to get to the heart of the matter.
26:28 -  That's the way God has made me. It was an agony last night to get two elders together with me in a room to speak to another family, just to get us together in that room, how they traipsed their way so slowly down
26:42 -  the aisle and stopped off to see this one or that, till we all come. But you know, I recognize, except that we're all there, nothing can be transacted for God. And I think the most profound revelation that God has given us in the depths of our experiences
27:04 -  in Minnesota is this, that despite our brave vocabularies, despite the spiritual sophistication that many of us had in being able to articulate with conviction and sincerity the principles of the Body of Christ and submission and authority and all that, when it came to the actualities
27:23 -  of our life, there was a shriek and a howl that came up from the deepest places of our being that were testimonies to our individualism and our independence of spirit, self-willed, proud hearts that would not condescend to be submitted to men.
27:49 -  Maybe if we could see, as God sees, the reason it takes us to get from down the aisle to a room is for that very reason. Maybe the way we shuffle our feet and drag is an unspoken expression of a subtlety of
28:06 -  rebellion that we have not recognized. But this Kingdom is holy, it's clean through and through, and it's true. And such subtleties are dealt with and removed in the process of God's people grinding together
28:26 -  daily. It's easy to say, thy Kingdom come, but this is what it's going to take to affect it. And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul.
28:45 -  The multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul. We've had some enormous adventures testing God, whether he had the power to have us as a multitude be of one heart and of one soul.
29:08 -  I wondered if Art was going to call me last night, here's what I would have shared. How there came a time when a very radical suggestion was made that the Katz family should leave the community and have a sabbatical of their own in another city, hundreds of
29:23 -  miles removed from our Minnesota community, at a time when families were coming to join us. It was so absurd, it almost sounded suicidal.
29:34 -  There's no kind of human or religious logic that could have approved it. And I said, of course I'll not do that. Other families are coming and we should leave?
29:43 -  I'll not do it except that God will give a witness to the entire fellowship. Guess what he did? The very next morning he gave a witness.
29:53 -  Everybody was in agreement to the most radical proposition that they ever had to contemplate, which could have cut their own throats and could have been the death of the community. And on the basis of the unanimous witness that the whole multitude was of one mind and
30:07 -  one soul, we left. We were gone something like nine months in Kansas City, and I think it was a turning point in the salvation of my own marriage, which is to say also the salvation of our
30:20 -  own ministry, which is to say also the salvation of our community. It was a critical step in which we dared not miss God. And I was amazed that not only was the whole multitude of us agreed, but three beautiful
30:35 -  prophecies came that morning. The one that I remember best is where the Lord said that if you'll submit to this pruning, I'll make you exceedingly fruitful.
30:45 -  It was a cutting. It was a pruning. Well, you know what happened in Kansas City?
30:50 -  I wasn't looking for any ministry for the Jews. We were there on a sabbatical to attend to the family, but this Jewish person needed help, and this lawyer was coming to me at seven o'clock in the morning for a little
31:00 -  scripture help, and this one needed, and I said, well, finally I just let them all come together one night of the week, and it turned out to be a kind of regular weekly Bible study. And before you know it, a Jewish work was beginning to commence, and the believers were
31:12 -  getting excited and interested, and hey, look what God is doing. So finally, by the time the nine months had gone, it reached such proportion that it was quite clear to me that this was really the purpose of God.
31:25 -  And then the brothers were coming to me and saying, all right, it's time for you to return. Well, I didn't have that witness. Look what God was doing.
31:33 -  This was God. I wasn't seeking for this Jewish work. God himself was doing it, and he was unfolding a new pattern that really could be something
31:41 -  that could go beyond Kansas City of apostolic proportion. What am I going to do, go back to Minnesota and put all my thumbs in the woods? Come on, fellas.
31:50 -  I remember four of them came down in a car driving 700 miles each way to seek to persuade me that it was time to return. They had fasted and prayed, and that was their unanimous witness, but I did not share it.
32:03 -  And by the way, I'm no babe in the faith, and I'm a man led by the Spirit of God, and God has led me in sensitive things so exacting and that you can't believe. So if I don't have any witness, you know, well, finally it was evident that I would
32:20 -  have to go up to Minnesota and straighten them out. So I took two prominent leaders from the Kansas City Jewish-believing community who many of you know, really tested and mature men of God, who agreed with me.
32:36 -  And we flew up to Minnesota, and we were going to really straighten this thing out once and for all. I remember we assembled the entire community, living room and a house, and I recounted to
32:46 -  them the whole story of how it is that we were brought to Kansas City by the ordination of God, what has happened in the months that we've been there, and the significance of what is happening there, the foolishness of returning now in the light of these things
33:00 -  and what God is evidently doing, and I rested my case. Out of the mouths of the babes of the community, Jeffrey was one of them, I remember that. Within the space of less than five minutes, God shut me down and let me to know that I
33:21 -  was wrong and that they were right and that I was to return. And that ministry flows out of life and life out of relationship, and that if I were to be severed any longer from that life and from those relationships, there would be no ministry,
33:39 -  and that it was time to return now. My head fell on my chest and I said, Yes, Lord. I was saved from deception, I'm not ashamed to tell you, that big boys like me can be
33:53 -  deceived, and the saving grace was the truth of God expressed through the body of believers with whom I was in real and actual commitment. It'll save you every time.
34:09 -  We're not playing a little game about submission and authority, it's no little system that we're practicing, we're not giddy little kids who got a box top and sent it in for a Julia G man set and we're playing body of Christ.
34:27 -  These are vital things, life and death, for ourselves and for those to whom God will bring us. And you know what we found?
34:36 -  That when the commitment is real, when you trust God, that he can bring you together and that the multitude can be of one soul and one mind, he'll do it. The same God that sent us, returned us, and so it continues to this day.
34:56 -  Are you in that kind of commitment? Are you willing to be? Are you willing to have your life submitted to men and maybe your own self-interests will
35:09 -  be violated? You can't believe how independent we are because we have drunk too long and too deeply from another fount.
35:23 -  I want to say that the spirit of individualism is utterly satanic. It has its origins in the pit of hell, it is an appeal to the egoistic hearts of men and wholly contrary from the spirit of the kingdom of heaven, which is a society of men
35:45 -  and a corporate glory. One of the favorite phrases that I heard from the precious brother, Ern Baxter, was that God himself is a sweet company and he wants a sweet company on earth, just like him.
36:02 -  As submitted one to another as the son is to the father and the spirit to the son, that we might be one. I am so suspicious of these hokey, full gospel type shindigs and themes of unity and ecumenism
36:26 -  with big banners of the dove, with glad handing and back slapping and hugging as if in so cheap and easy and glib a manner is that this kind of true togetherness is going to be established. It's established at the cross.
36:51 -  The multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul, neither said any of them that order the things which he possessed was his own, but they had all things common and with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus and
37:08 -  great grace was upon them all. Christian lifestyle begins with a break with the world situation and its givens. It is a choice of a path which leads the Christian out of conformity to the world.
37:25 -  Therefore it is the choice of a path moving in a different direction from those who persist in conformity and uniformly with the patterns and structures of the world system. What we're learning in our community situation is that the community is much more than a
37:41 -  religious entity. We're having a new kind of economy, a new kind of political order, a new kind of a social order, a new kind of society.
37:57 -  Our culture is being changed in our tastes and something is being shaped and formed which is neither Gentile nor Jewish, which somehow is removing us from the power of Sears Roebuck and Ward Catalogues and the necessity to walk through shopping malls that you can get a
38:15 -  psychic fix for the relief that comes from being able to go out for a night on the town. One thing we pray is that he doesn't take away our ice cream. Have you realized that buying is far more than the obtaining of commodities?
38:43 -  You know that don't you? Buying is a psychic orgy. Even window shopping will give you a fix.
38:55 -  When I heard out of my own 10 year old son, can we go to a shopping mall? I began to realize that even he had been affected by the fever. He had no intention of buying, he's tight-fisted, but he wanted to see the merchandise.
39:10 -  I'll tell you that merchandise has never been more cunningly displayed than in this generation. There's a whole psychology of display that has to do with color and arrangement. The very principle of the supermarket.
39:26 -  Listen, I go back almost 50 years and I can remember the little corner grocery store where all you saw were a few scroungy shelves and if you bought a quarter pound of butter he cut it out of a tub and dipped the milk out of a container.
39:40 -  Contrast that with our present supermarkets in all of their splendor, cunningly designed by artful men who know the valences of color and sound and display, and you see merchandise stacked up on shelves in great volume,
39:58 -  it has an overwhelming capacity to affect your soul and to influence your choices. How many of us are buying more than we need? And how many of the things that used to be called luxuries have now become needs?
40:16 -  Why are there men right now breaking their brains? The most powerful of human personalities, the most prepared and trained, whose one function it is, is to find new ways to tempt and tantalize and to seduce people into merchandise.
40:37 -  You know that there's only one reference in all the scriptures to hallelujah being cried out in heaven? You know when it comes? When Babylon is destroyed in a day.
40:51 -  When those who pander after delicious merchandise cry because their city has gone up in smoke and it's merchandise with it. That elicits from heaven, hallelujah.
41:09 -  What it needs to elicit from us now is hallelujah. And not to wait for that final day of the Lord, but let it be a day of the Lord and not to ask. How'd you like to see your merchandise go up in smoke?
41:23 -  And your wardrobe? And your high fives? And your books?
41:29 -  I'll tell you, I see libraries of individual saints that deserve to be public libraries. The reference volumes and thousands of dollars, splendiferous displays of books of which I myself am not altogether innocent.
41:48 -  It's amazing how that stuff is humbling. And almost invariably, and I've said it a few days in this trip, the shock and the contrast of coming back from Holland and England where everything is reduced
42:00 -  one certain scale, the size of the houses, the amount of food in the portions, and then being thrust into this sprawling American lifestyle with the square footage and the food and the luggage and the comfort and the luxury is really an adjustment.
42:18 -  But in every house that I stayed, with the exception of that one or two, when it came time to hang up my one or two things in the closet, I could not find them. It took her through a million efforts to push back the overflow of their garments in the guest room
42:42 -  in order to get at my couple of things when I hanged it. Let's face it, guys, our culture has had more to do with refining our lifestyle than the kingdom of heaven. The most profound experience that I had in Holland, I had to share it with you now,
43:00 -  and I shared it individually, was an overnight visit to a community of believers founded and built around a man who at one time had been one of the impressive evangelical rich kids at Holland. He was going places and God brought him down into the dust of death and scattered everything.
43:24 -  He was moved into the place of obscurity and on a two-acre parcel of ground there are 65 souls living. Two acres, you would call that a ghetto, congestion. I remember walking into the building and when I saw all of the bodies, immediately I sensed the discomfort of crowds.
43:50 -  But after I sat down for a couple of minutes, I began to realize that it was only an instinctive reflex action, but that I was not experiencing that discomfort longer, but I was experiencing conversely a profound teeth. Out of proportion with the physical number of bodies present, there was a marvelous teeth that prevailed in that place.
44:14 -  Another was saying to me, you see that one art? I saw a woman looking perfectly whole, knitting and joyous and people kissing each other and hugging and talking and chatting as if it was wonderful, warm. It was a heavenly environment.
44:30 -  He said he was a hopeless physical planet. This one attempted suicide last week in a mental institution and he came to us. This one was a hopeless drug addict.
44:40 -  This one is a notorious criminal who cannot get back into his own country. You know what I saw? The scum and the off scourings of society.
44:49 -  I saw the rejects and the nevices. By the way, I don't know what the word nevice means. That's what it means.
44:55 -  The helpless, the awkward, the ungainly, for whom the world is not worthy. Who are the victims of a world whose system is satanic and whose values run counter to the organic life for which God has sent us. I want to tell you that God has made us to dwell in a kingdom of heaven.
45:21 -  Our minds and our nervous systems and our bodies are made for a certain quality of living that is true and unsamed and joyous and fervently loving. And when we're submitted into conditions of unreality, you know what happens? We crack up.
45:43 -  The marvel is not that our mental institutions are jammed with victims. The marvel is that there are countless millions walking this street that presume to have some semblance of sanity whose life is really insane and unreal. What God wants is for there to be islands of sanity and reality and truth and love that the distressed and the so sick and the hopeless can see and enter on the basis of repentance.
46:15 -  Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at end. See? Here it is. Repent, give up your filthy lifestyle and your mucking about and your vicious egoistic pursuit and the accumulation of your merchandise and your ego trips and your competition and enter the kingdom.
46:36 -  There'll be no cry for repentance until there's a kingdom at end as an alternative to which men can come. Because here I am in Holland seeing this precious environment. About 10 o'clock that night they had coffee.
46:51 -  Practice how they served each other. Remarkable, the love and the way they served each other. You know it's the little things that are everything.
47:01 -  Whether you eat or you drink, do it as unto the Lord. How many of us serve each other like that as if it's unto the Lord? I'll tell you that these little graces change the whole complexion of all of life.
47:16 -  But again, we're schooled by our society. We do not slap down a detected bottle in the milk container and slide it across the counter. Find yourself a fork.
47:27 -  Feeding your faith? Yeah, but eating is more than feeding your faith and your guts. Eating is more than a gastronomic activity.
47:35 -  Eating is an art and a grace and a breaking of bread and a communion. I'm spoiled because I've eaten at Darmstadt Germany with the Sisters of Mary. And they set a table for me folks.
47:52 -  It would not have shamed the Lord himself, etc. They took blue crepe paper and they made a star table on the entire table. And I've never seen silverware more green in all my life.
48:06 -  Maskings more white, dishes more bright. And the whole thing sat in such architectural splendor and such symmetry that you wince even to see food come on the plate and spoil it.
48:20 -  Here. Kingdom of God is how you keep your bathrooms and what your linen closet looks like. And another German fellowship that had invited me in for a meal in Jerusalem in the old city
48:39 -  living in the basement of the Redeemer Lutheran Church. And I came in all hot and sweaty from the bus and I said, do you have a towel? And she said, sure.
48:47 -  And she opened the linen closet and there I was absolutely transfixed and speechless. I was more ministered to in that moment looking at the linen closet than any dozens of times sitting in churches at services and listening to things.
49:07 -  It was a spiritual experience to look at the linen closet. I mean, these were towels that were so black and so precisely folded and stacked in such symmetrical order that it took your breath away.
49:27 -  It was the suggestion of another kind of culture and another kingdom. And as my eye went from that linen closet to the table, to the room, to the furnishings, and to the people themselves, it went all the same.
49:42 -  They were not German so much as if they were the representatives of another culture. That is transcendent and heavenly. Thy kingdom come is going to take some elbow greek and application.
50:02 -  I remember visiting the home where the people had a love for the Jewish people. I mean, I really had sincere concern and pray and occasions where I had Jewish visitors. And I had to use their bathroom.
50:15 -  I almost prayed after using their bathroom that Jewish people would not come into their house. Because I know Jewish people. These Jewish housewives boast about whose floor you can eat from.
50:30 -  And if they were to come into a sloppy and sloppy place and see that cake truck in the bathroom, whatever you stretch of them in the living room will be annulled right there. We've got to do something more than say.
50:45 -  We've got to be the incarnational expression of another kingdom. The words made flesh and dwelling among them. Thy kingdom come.
51:06 -  When he showed me these broken people, thought this one was a schizophrenic, this one says different things. I couldn't get over their sanity, their wholeness. When they had that little Bible study at the end of the evening,
51:18 -  you know they've been two years in the letters to the Corinthians? Sometimes they don't get beyond a word. They're marched by another beast.
51:29 -  They're living by faith and they're being sustained somehow. They will not take any aid from just society. And they could qualify because they're rendering the social service.
51:39 -  And these European countries are very generous in terms of underwriting social services. They will not take anything from the world. They're wholly cast upon God.
51:51 -  This man hooking up later this week where he stays, first of all his own children are living in the dormitory with other kids. They have not an independent little home of their own.
52:01 -  He showed me his room. It was large enough only to accommodate six beds. Life in itself and a chest of drawers and a chair.
52:10 -  That was it. They're as happy as luck. They're having a joy that's unspeakable.
52:17 -  They're the fathers and mothers of the community. And when he began to say the word that night, I just couldn't understand it being in Dutch.
52:24 -  I never saw such attentiveness to the word of God as these former inmates of prisons and mental institutions were given. They hung on the word as if it was their own life.
52:37 -  And the thing that blew my mind was when it was time to go to bed and they all got up and left. But not a soul left before they kissed each other.
52:45 -  And I've never seen a holy kiss without that name. I was stabbed in the heart. How we have leaned over backwards
52:54 -  to avoid any kind of intimacy and physical expression of affection and I think we've made a mistake. Where's our confidence in God?
53:04 -  And haven't we yet come to a sufficient maturity and purity that we can again embrace the saints and give a holy kiss and open the door that will lift our hearts and our spirits
53:14 -  and our minds and our souls to be made whole and to be freed from our insecurities and our fears and our hangups? I'll tell you that holy kiss did more therapy for those broken victims
53:25 -  than shock treatment, drugs, medication, and even Christian therapy and counseling. You know this letter told me?
53:34 -  He's a brilliant man. He said, I don't counsel any of them. Only the very minimum of actual counsel.
53:43 -  We get out of the way and we let go. He said, all we do is provide an atmosphere of love and acceptance and we let the Spirit of God directly heal these people.
53:56 -  I'll never forget this thing. I'm anxious to get back home and start kissing. It's another culture.
54:09 -  The path of obedience to Christ brings a break in the human situation made possible by the inclusion of the Gospel as the new factor which breaks the dominance of the old factors of the world.
54:21 -  The Gospel signals the end of the unconfessed dominion of principalities and powers of the world over people's lives. And all this has been brought about by the in-breaking of the kingdom.
54:36 -  Only our daily decisions and choices can show the reality of our relationship with Jesus Christ. The kingdom is a daily thing.
54:44 -  They went from house to house daily breaking bread. It's a moment by moment thing. It's how you set the table.
54:54 -  It's how you greet the saints. It's what you do with your iron shoes. The proclamation of the New Testament is the Gospel of the Kingdom,
55:03 -  a Gospel of a new order, a new creation, a new world, a new age. The Gospel presented in the New Testament is a scandal to the values and standards of the world.
55:16 -  The absolute authority and dominion of the destructive forces and structures of the world has been ended by the inauguration of a whole new order in human affairs called
55:26 -  the Kingdom of God. I didn't say it before, I want to say it again, that there's a difference between the Gospel
55:35 -  and the Gospel of the Kingdom. You never see the word Gospel standing nakedly by itself in the Scriptures.
55:44 -  John the Baptist came preaching, the Gospel of the Kingdom repents for the Kingdom of Heaven is at hand.
55:53 -  Jesus, from the beginning of his ministry, preached the Gospel of the Kingdom. And the Apostle Paul, with the last rest that was in him
56:02 -  in the final stages of his life in Rome, proclaimed the Gospel of the Kingdom of God to all who came unto him.
56:11 -  There's a difference between the Gospel of narrow salvation and personal self-interest, and the Gospel of the Kingdom of Heaven.
56:19 -  That Gospel is a scandal. The Gospel of the Kingdom of Heaven is a contradiction to the world
56:26 -  in every point and every particular. And it will bring the reproach and the persecution of the world
56:34 -  upon those who proclaim it and demonstrate it. Talk of pragmatism, respectability, and methodologies dominates the conversations
56:44 -  of contemporary religions. But the New Testament speaks of the abandonment, insecurity, persecution, and exile
56:52 -  that come from seeking first the Kingdom. How many of you know the history of the Mennonites and the Hutterites
57:02 -  and all of the Anabaptist groups who were drowned by the thousands and burned at the stake
57:09 -  and roasted on the spit and were allowed to rot in dungeons Do you know why?
57:19 -  They returned to the Kingdom. Do you know who killed them? Catholics and Protestants.
57:33 -  They will kill you and claim they are doing God a service. It's a picture of persecution
57:40 -  that comes not from the world, so much as it comes from religionists for whom you've gone too far
57:48 -  and rocked the boat. The New Testament speaks of the abandonment, insecurity, persecution, and exile
57:56 -  that comes from seeking first the Kingdom. A church of concepts, property, privilege, and positions
58:02 -  stands in sharp contrast with the biblical description of the people of God
58:08 -  as aliens, exiles, sojourners, strangers, and children. So I've got a few things to say.
58:16 -  I had a conversation last night with a young brother outside sitting on the steps.
58:22 -  He's been listening to a lot of tapes on the faith message. What do you think about the faith message, Bob?
58:30 -  I guess it's good, I said, but the kind of faith that really excites me
58:36 -  is not the kind that believes the Cadillac, but it's the faith that is written of in the roll call of the giants of faith
58:43 -  of whom the world was not worthy, all of whom died not having seen the promise, who saw themselves as exiles
58:56 -  and sojourners and strangers looking for a city not made by hand. It says that they confessed
59:05 -  that they were children and strangers, not merely acknowledged it. Let me ask you the question this morning.
59:13 -  How much are you a children and a stranger? How much are you ill at ease in the culture of this present world?
59:23 -  How much do you chase in your business world or your professional world
59:29 -  or in the neighborhood? How much do you feel out of joint and out of place and out of time?
59:37 -  Where do you feel more comfortable with the saints who are in the world? You don't have a sense of sleepiness
59:45 -  and strangeness about your life. There's something wrong with your values. I'm getting increasingly sleepier.
01:00:01 -  I'm becoming an embarrassment. But I'll tell you what it's like to see freaky men walking into the office
01:00:12 -  of the chairman of the Department of Philosophy at a college in New York and stunning him right out of his wrist.
01:00:21 -  The Word of God so powerful and sharp and clear that in a few massive strokes, that man is taken right out of his
01:00:31 -  pinstripe suit and left sitting with his DVD naked and revealed once and for all.
01:00:39 -  He's had a confrontation with a freak. And this is a man who is privy to the religious councils of Christendom
01:00:49 -  because he's sick in the midst of ecumenical activity with all kinds of Christian bodies
01:00:55 -  and archbishops and clerics and all of the whole panoply of the religious world
01:01:02 -  and the conferences of Christians and Jews. And the first thing I had to say to him was, look here, buddy, don't equate me with them.
01:01:10 -  I'm not in that flow at all. I leap over that and go back to something much older and earlier
01:01:17 -  than the original that had to do with Paul and the fathers before him. I'm not in this murky ecumenical business.
01:01:28 -  And the man who thought that we came to the present stage about our different religious perspectives
01:01:35 -  found himself utterly devastated and confronted by God in a way for which he shall be held
01:01:41 -  eternally responsible. I heard myself saying to this man with such authority,
01:01:50 -  former high school dropout, saying to the chairman of the department of philosophy,
01:01:56 -  you have no fundamental respect for truth. A child would know that,
01:02:04 -  except that there's a foundation of truth, whatever you shall build after that, whatever that superstructure is,
01:02:11 -  shall lean and be out of filter and subsequently come down, it cannot be said.
01:02:17 -  Talking to a man with a wall loaded with honorary degrees and certificates and diplomas
01:02:23 -  to a little child, that could be the confrontation always between those who are strangers
01:02:31 -  and children into journeys who march by another gate when they confront anyone in this world
01:02:37 -  because their reality is other. Their reality is based in the word
01:02:43 -  and the call of God to become citizens of another kingdom.
01:02:49 -  I'm so fond of saying now that when the world encounters us on a bus, a train,
01:02:55 -  a plane, an airport, a waiting room, wherever, they should rub their tins after we leave
01:03:01 -  and scratch their heads in wonder. Was that a man or an angel? In those same days in New York
01:03:09 -  on the subway train, what a picture of hopelessness and despair,
01:03:15 -  going into these dark tunnels, bodies jammed together like sardines, being hurdled, they know not where
01:03:21 -  and for what, lives tragically misspent and wasted, trying to take a few pictures
01:03:27 -  to show the folks back home what life in New York is like because I think God is calling us
01:03:33 -  to have a greater involvement in His purpose here. The trains are loaded with graffiti
01:03:39 -  and all kinds of filthy inscriptions right in it. As I was trying to take a picture,
01:03:45 -  a kid with his anthropology books under his arms said, hey mister, what are you doing? I said, I'm taking the pictures and native
01:03:51 -  to send the folks back home. I said, I might even send a picture to Samoa,
01:04:01 -  show the folks in Samoa how they lived in New York. You know the classic in anthropology
01:04:07 -  is coming of age in Samoa, so the kid suffered. We had a few words and I had to get out of the next stop
01:04:13 -  and just as the doors opened and I was about to leave, I saw myself turning and I said to him,
01:04:19 -  I said, by the way, there's only one culture that's worth any consideration at all. Oh, he said, what's that?
01:04:25 -  I said, it's the culture of the kingdom of God. And we walked out and the doors closed
01:04:31 -  and the train went on into the tunnel. It doesn't take much to be the representative of another kingdom.
01:04:45 -  Oh, children. Yeah. Hallelujah.
01:04:51 -  The Bible sees change as coming about primarily through the presence of the people of God in history.
01:04:57 -  A city on a hill, a demonstration of what human life can be in the love and the power
01:05:03 -  of Christ. I think the best thing and the favorite thing I've ever heard from Paul, just hearing the
01:05:09 -  when he said one day as we were running along and he had his coffee cup in his hand, he said, you know what the gospel
01:05:15 -  is all about? I said, what? He said, it's just to teach men how to live. And something went pow!
01:05:21 -  Excellent. That's what the gospel is all about, to teach men how to live. And that's what
01:05:27 -  the gospel people are all about, to teach the world that is dying in their distorted and perverse values
01:05:33 -  that they live in this. A demonstration of what human life can be
01:05:39 -  in the love and the power of Christ. That's what you saw here last night. People learning what life can be.
01:05:45 -  If they're let go of their security, their material possessions, their love of
01:05:51 -  privacy, wanting to keep themselves concealed and hidden, clutching the things that have been dear to them,
01:05:57 -  and let go and let God thoroughly rework in these days. That nitty grittiness of being
01:06:03 -  thrown together with the saints of God daily will be able to show a world that human life can be.
01:06:15 -  The new community of God's people exists as an alien force in relation to the old order, and is
01:06:21 -  intended to be an outcropping of the new order, a presentation to the world and to the very powers of the world
01:06:27 -  of the possibilities of a new order that has come and that has already taken root in the life of the world through the
01:06:33 -  death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Now listen, guys, we have to grow
01:06:39 -  up. The resurrection is not given to us simply as a doctrine in which to believe. It is
01:06:45 -  our life, though we of all people are most to be killed.
01:06:51 -  We may have been able to conduct Sunday Christianity on the basis of our natural endowment
01:06:57 -  and sincerity in well-meaning religious intentions, but we cannot conduct the kingdom on that basis.
01:07:05 -  What you saw last night is the result of the reality of the resurrection.
01:07:11 -  The references that were made of our meeting together in the morning of prayer. You know how those meetings begin? You want to see death
01:07:19 -  warmed up. Be there 7am in the morning and watch a bunch of saints come clumping
01:07:25 -  into the room slowly and sit, perch and grab, lake, in different conditions of being,
01:07:31 -  having had a spat with the wife or just went on the back or just purely for no reason at all.
01:07:39 -  And look at each other and your mouth is still just filled up. Your body feels wasted and crumpled.
01:07:47 -  You're uninspired. You wonder what they're doing there and how did they get into this situation?
01:07:53 -  And that's how it begins. And you know what? Out of such ground zero
01:07:59 -  beginnings as that which we come by faith, which is another word for commitment,
01:08:05 -  before those sessions have ended we have seen and tapes it and been stained
01:08:11 -  by the glory of God. Because we have been willing to come in nakedness, without faith
01:08:19 -  sitting out in that condition, without any design or knowledge of how, trusting
01:08:25 -  God, we have seen his life from a nothing beginning, begin to move
01:08:31 -  and stir and find expression and give meaning and
01:08:37 -  change. I'll tell you, we have seen more reality in one of those two hour sessions.
01:08:43 -  More life changing things, more things of eternal consequence in two hours than many Christians have experienced
01:08:49 -  in a lifetime of Sunday. One two hour session. Going from house
01:08:57 -  to house daily. I think the single greatest reason why we have not had a visible kingdom on the earth
01:09:07 -  has been that there is not a people who have been willing
01:09:13 -  to divest themselves of their own meager life. To trust him for his
01:09:19 -  and to move and live and have their being in him and test the reality of the resurrection
01:09:25 -  in their own life and their relationships together on a daily basis.
01:09:31 -  It's everything that God was saying yesterday, in the opening chapter of the book of Acts.
01:09:37 -  Is it now time for you to restore the kingdom? Listen, cool it. It's not that kingdom at all that God is even interested in.
01:09:43 -  But you shall receive power that you may be witnesses unto me
01:09:49 -  and you'll be a familiar to the utmost corners of the earth. That's what it's all about.
01:09:55 -  You shall receive power. You're not going to be able to do this on your own. This is not by your
01:10:01 -  amiability or your temperament or your nice guyism. That will be shattered
01:10:07 -  within a matter of days. This is on the basis of my life. If you'll come
01:10:13 -  together, I'll fill you with my life. I'll send down my glorified
01:10:19 -  spirit that has been tempted through sufferings and deaths and now has the right and the privilege
01:10:25 -  to be ascended on high as the throne of my father, David. And I'll send down that spirit
01:10:31 -  that you might be able to be a kingdom unto me, a witness unto me, and
01:10:37 -  show people who are dying how to live. A new order, a presentation to the world
01:10:45 -  of the possibilities that have come and taken root in the life of the world through the death and resurrection of
01:10:51 -  Jesus Christ. The powerful biblical metaphor that compares the church's
01:10:57 -  life to that of a physical body is now almost completely foreign to most congregations, which are little more
01:11:03 -  than voluntary associations of autonomous individuals. Whew!
01:11:09 -  You're right. Comparing such people to a body is a
01:11:17 -  foreign identification for most Christians, the body of Christ,
01:11:23 -  who are a voluntary association of autonomous individuals. You have a totally different perspective when you're a minister
01:11:31 -  and you look down from platforms, from church to church, congregation to congregation,
01:11:37 -  and you have sitting in them. You notice this? You see little isolated ions.
01:11:43 -  You see little particular communities of self-interest that you don't see the body.
01:11:49 -  They're autonomous, independent entities unto themselves.
01:11:55 -  They are not that joined corporate expression animated by his life or
01:12:01 -  his purposes. You know what it takes to go from the individual autonomous life to that corporateness
01:12:07 -  that reveals the glory of God? Great things. Something has to go
01:12:15 -  a crack, snap, and pop in this deep seed of individuality and
01:12:21 -  self-worth. But we might slow together as a people before God,
01:12:31 -  not just giving up our own abusive reluctance of experience, setting the tables for each other
01:12:37 -  as if it were for the very lyrical self. You know how that Dutch
01:12:45 -  fellowship ate? I had two meals with them, and their meal is bread.
01:12:51 -  In the morning it was bread and jam, or bread and butter, or bread and a thin slice of cheese and cheese.
01:12:57 -  When it came to lunch, which I thought was really going to be the meal of the day, it was bread again.
01:13:03 -  Only they substituted thin slices of bologna instead of what was in cheese. That's it. I never saw people
01:13:09 -  live more simply. I even wonder whether three meals a day was ever written in heaven.
01:13:17 -  Plus the afternoon meeting snack. I know I'm skating out tonight. And probably
01:13:31 -  cancel my ice cream for tonight. To begin by speaking,
01:13:39 -  it wouldn't be nice to have bagels for dinner. I can go on, but I think that we
01:13:49 -  have gotten the point. I don't think it's too much of a joke to say that maybe we ought to examine
01:13:57 -  some of the unquestioned predicates of our lives three meals a day.
01:14:03 -  Like doing business as usual. Like having our wardrobe stuffed with
01:14:09 -  clothing. Like the time and the attention that we give to outward things and to appearance.
01:14:15 -  Like the superficiality that characterizes our congregations when we are the acclimates individually.
01:14:21 -  In a word, what we need to do is to submit the whole of our present life to the light of God
01:14:27 -  with the cry kingdom come. Willing that he should
01:14:33 -  severely, if he will, cut away that which is not compatible with his kingdom.
01:14:39 -  That there might be established in the corporateness of God's people a distinct lifestyle
01:14:45 -  whose origin is unmistakable. It's heaven.
01:14:55 -  This description that Archie gave last night of these men in Illinois. These wealthy, charismatic farmers.
01:15:01 -  Beautiful fellowships. And just in the space of two days we found these men at the very end
01:15:07 -  broken, whimpering on the floor. You can't believe what God was beginning to suggest and we came without any desire.
01:15:15 -  Men who are actually in competition with each other of who has got the most
01:15:21 -  recent, brand new banking, combined in harvest days. Which, by the way, now costs about
01:15:27 -  $45,000 a piece. The first thing that these brothers will do when you visit their homes is to show you their machinery.
01:15:35 -  Who gets the seed in the ground first? Who's rows are straighter? Whose harvest is more abundant?
01:15:41 -  Who's made the killing in the market this year? Who's able to buy himself a new car?
01:15:49 -  When we began to suggest to them that they need to submit not only their religious life but the totality of their life
01:15:55 -  to the Kingdom we watched grown men cry. We've got to have our own machinery
01:16:05 -  because it's only a short season and if you don't get your harvest in, your crops can be ruined. Seek first
01:16:15 -  the Kingdom of God and His righteousness and all things else
01:16:21 -  eventually. You know, guys, the Gospel is a radical premise.
01:16:31 -  I just suggested nothing before that. Who knows that God will for you
01:16:37 -  explain the harvesting season that you might bring in all of your crops together
01:16:43 -  and not be cutting your own throat and competing with your own brothers and be loading upon yourself
01:16:49 -  because each one has to have his own equipment. Who knows if God will not meet you in a kingdom way
01:16:57 -  and stress the harvest season. We feel ourselves as a community to be on the threshold
01:17:05 -  of a new dimension in kind and safe relationships. God is stretching things
01:17:11 -  and opening up a new order. One would have thought that if you were away from the community for two months
01:17:17 -  that that could be injurious or fat fatal, nothing like that. One would have thought that
01:17:23 -  if your family would suffer if you're a long absentee you'd find our family flourishing.
01:17:31 -  We're entering into a new kind of thing where you don't compensate for your absences necessarily
01:17:37 -  by taking your kids to prison. That there's something that has transacted in the heavenlies
01:17:43 -  where God Himself ministers directly to the needs of a family and a community
01:17:49 -  when you are in the place of obedience and faithfulness in your service. That somehow we're not to measure as the world measures
01:17:55 -  not to think as the world thinks not to make our values their values our values
01:18:01 -  but we're to enter into a new realm of seeing and believing and acting which is heavenlies.
01:18:09 -  It'll extend your harvest season it'll give you new ways to do new things
01:18:15 -  new enablements new provisions you really have your citizenship
01:18:25 -  in heaven. Do you believe that? And would you be willing to perish
01:18:33 -  at the crossroads? Yea, though He explaineth that's the right question.
01:18:41 -  Yes, if my harvest doesn't come in and my crops are ruined and I can't make my payment and I have to foreclose
01:18:47 -  my property, I'm still willing to seek to be a farmer in the kingdom's manner
01:18:53 -  than in the American cultural way. Know what God told these farmers?
01:18:59 -  That American agriculture is predicated upon gambling. Would you thank your workforce
01:19:05 -  or the other thing? Speculation.
01:19:11 -  What will the price be of the thing that they're planting now when the time comes to bring the crops?
01:19:17 -  How long can they keep their crop and stay, waiting for the optimum market price?
01:19:23 -  It's not based on need, it's based on profit. It's not based on the kingdom, it's based on speculation for the hope of greater dreams.
01:19:31 -  You know why that elevator dreams collapsed and failed, though it was the business of an elder of a persecuting church?
01:19:37 -  And he had me for dinner and he was trying to pull out a cart and explain to me what went wrong.
01:19:43 -  I said, here's where you went wrong. Why did you enter that dream for the hope of greater
01:19:49 -  dreams? That's where you went wrong. That is not his kingdom
01:19:55 -  noted. But we're hearing the gospel like that today.
01:20:03 -  You can even make your spirituality by your affluence that it is not the
01:20:09 -  gospel of the kingdom of heaven. Your children will be required to
01:20:15 -  march by another beast. You have another purpose. You have other values
01:20:21 -  to establish in heaven. And if you sleep at first, all things will be edited.
01:20:29 -  Thy kingdom come is the cry of God now
01:20:37 -  as it was at the beginning of the age. There'll be no salvation for the despair in you
01:20:45 -  until there's a kingdom of heaven which is at hand. Willing to give yourself
01:20:51 -  to that new lolly and embellishment and courage in the places where you are.
01:20:57 -  Willing to go from Sunday Christianity punctuated by the Middle East Bible study into a
01:21:03 -  kind of gritty, daily relationship with God's people with everything you
01:21:09 -  experience. Willing to open yourself to the inclusion of other lives on you.
01:21:15 -  Willing to have your privacy ventilated. Willing to have your secrets stamped in your veers.
01:21:21 -  Willing to be found out in your veers. For your riches and your defects.
01:21:27 -  Willing to separate the humiliation of this revelation. That God can encourage you
01:21:35 -  and establish you in his life together. Room is taken where they're assembled together.
01:21:43 -  Great grace is upon them all. With power given customarily to the
01:21:51 -  revelation of Jesus Christ. Those that believe were together.
01:21:59 -  Hallelujah. Let's pray thy kingdom come in your Salvation.