Apostolic Foundations - Principalities And Powers

00:00 -  We have a very difficult topic before us tonight, difficult in every way, complex in itself, difficult because it is unfamiliar to us, and difficult because it is strenuously opposed by the powers of darkness. I already feel exhausted before I begin. So great is the strain
00:40 -  of this. We are really going to need grace, the grace that is given to preach. So I just ask you to join your spirits with ours. We stand at such a place tonight that we could either collapse in a welter of confusion or break through into a new transcendent place.
01:19 -  We have all the potential for this being an historic hour for the Church. Just for the proclamation of what can go forth. So I'm saying these things not to be melodramatic, but just to alert your spirit and to join us in your spirit in prayer now, and to be prayerful even through the speaking tonight.
02:06 -  If your mind is not fruitful or understanding, don't panic. There are issues deeper than the issue of mind. So just receive in your spirit the engrafted word. Don't get all blocked up in your nervousness. Or your nervousness for us. But let's be co-laborers together in attending something that needs to be born.
03:11 -  We're traveling together of something that needs to be brought forth, whose time has come. It requires the entire operation of the Church together. It's not the matter of the virtuosity of a single speaker. The powers of hell are trembling for the prospect of this night. And a very serious defeat can be inflicted upon them. And much depends upon our own response.
04:07 -  So I want to read the scriptures, which is the heart of the text for tonight. We began it this morning in Ephesians 3, where Paul says in the eighth verse that to me, the very least of all saints, this grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unfathomable riches of Christ, and to bring to light what is the application of the mystery,
04:46 -  which for ages has been hidden in God, who created all things, in order that now the manifold wisdom of God might be made known through the Church to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly places. This was in accordance with the eternal purpose which he carried out in Christ Jesus, our Lord. My subject tonight is the principalities and the powers. And what is the manifold wisdom of God that must be now made known to them?
05:51 -  For this is the eternal purpose of God for the Church. And if we fail in this purpose, we fail in all. Let's pray. We so understand Paul tonight, Lord, who beseeched the saints that they might pray for him, that a door of utterance might be opened, that he might speak as he ought to speak, the mysteries of Christ, this least of all men who prayed for the grace that is given to preach.
06:57 -  I ask a measure of that grace tonight, Lord, that we might preach, that we might proclaim and set forth something of these mysteries. In your great love and mercy toward us, in your pity that comprehends our weakness and our foolishness, come and show yourself strong to your people. In the power of your own life, your own wisdom and understanding, and we will bow before you in such gratitude for Jesus' sake, in whose name we pray. Amen.
08:03 -  I agree with an American writer in his comment about the Church and the powers. He remarks on how remarkable is the naivety and the ignorance of the Church toward them. It's a remarkable ignorance and a remarkable indifference, not because it just happens to be something of interest, but it is absolutely foundational to the whole calling of the Church. We have majored in the minors and have ignored this major theme, and this condemns all of our activity to a certain kind of futility and fruitlessness.
09:17 -  We dissipate our energy away and on a horizontal level, in an earthly way, even though we have been told by Paul that we wrestle not against flesh and blood. Our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the powers, against the world forces of the darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places. That's Ephesians 6, verses 12.
10:11 -  This is a wrestling, a struggle, a corporate struggle, something that is waiting for the collective or the corporate activity of us as the army of God. It's a militant company that can address this only. What does it mean, the principalities and powers, the rulers of darkness, in heavenly places?
10:52 -  There's a whole realm of mystery here. The heaven that's referred to here is not the one occupied by God, but something in the very atmosphere that broods over the earth. The rulers and the darkness of the air that influence the conduct of men and nations more than we would suppose.
11:32 -  All things were created by God, and even these principalities and powers are an angelic creation. A spirit order that was given initially by God for his own purposes. But in the fallen creation, they too have rebelled against their creator.
12:05 -  And though that they were intended as a benign influence in the aiding of God and his purposes to men, somehow to operate in the material world, though invisible, to respect a certain kind of order and coherence for human life,
12:44 -  they have rebelled against the purpose of the creator, and have taken unto themselves their own purposes, and seek themselves to be deified,
13:00 -  and to turn the loyalties and the attention of men to themselves, and to establish their own values contrary to God, and to turn men away from God,
13:18 -  and so they operate through nations, through institutions, through things economic, cultural, political, religious. And we see this power displayed in nationalism,
13:38 -  in rivalry and wars, in the celebration of race and of power, the very German theologians who would not consider this subject as being respectable,
13:58 -  and were embarrassed by Paul's reference to these spirit entities, and wanted to dismiss it as some kind of vestige of his rabbinical understanding, for demon powers of darkness are not a polite subject,
14:26 -  had to in their own lifetime experience these powers, in the paganism, the violence and the death that characterized Nazi Germany, where these powers broke through in complete sway,
14:52 -  and the turning of the loyalties of men to themselves, in the name of race and nation, a new order, a perverse distortion,
15:06 -  an anti-Christ manifestation. Someone has wisely said that Germany had lost World War II. But the same powers of darkness of the air that precipitated it remain unchallenged still.
15:38 -  The phrase is even in our vocabulary. We say there's something in the air. We travel from one country to another,
15:52 -  and the moment that the plane comes down, we can sense something in the air. We would be fools and naive to continue in a willful ignorance of these realities.
16:06 -  You say, just how influential are these invisible spirit powers of the air? They were sufficient to crucify Christ. That's what we are told in 1 Corinthians, Chapter 2,
16:29 -  in the 6th verse. Paul says, yet we do speak wisdom among those who are mature, a wisdom, however, not of this age,
16:41 -  nor of the rulers of this age who are passing away. But it is wisdom that we preach among the perfect, wisdom that is not of this century,
16:54 -  nor of the princes of this century, nor of the princes of this century who will be reduced to impotence. But we preach the wisdom of God,
17:09 -  mysterious and hidden, that God had predestined before the centuries for our glory. A wisdom that none of the princes of this century has known.
17:21 -  For if they had understood it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. The phrase the rulers of this age does not refer to men,
17:39 -  but to the rulers of darkness of the principalities and powers of the air. But to the princes of darkness of those who rule over the principalities and powers of the air. Invisible,
17:54 -  superterrestrial, beyond the earth, but operating through worldly and earthly authorities
18:04 -  that are ignorant of their influence. If they had understood the wisdom of God, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory.
18:19 -  I want to tell you that this is a great influence. I think that we're still waiting for believers to write the history of civilisation. Because we cannot even explain adequately the history of our own century,
18:37 -  independent of an exposition of the invisible forces of the air that have influenced the conduct of nations in our own generation. I think that we're still waiting for believers to write the history of civilisation.
18:59 -  Beyond an exposition of the influence of these powers of the air in the history and the course of the history of our own generation. Totalitarianism and Nazism cannot be understood independently of this principle.
19:20 -  This is something that is far beyond what is sociology or science for. This is occultism, Satanism, demonism. The unseen forces of darkness of the air.
19:38 -  And we need to come to a maturity that recognises the things that are true. Not as some kind of painful obligation to attend. But as the very eternal purpose of God for the church.
19:59 -  Thank you, Lord, for bringing us now this far. Now I want to try this on you. Do you understand that there is a need for a new religion?
20:20 -  There is a cosmic struggle, a mastery for the control, for the dominion of the whole cosmos going on. A moral struggle for the mastery of the cosmos.
20:50 -  By two kinds of moral orders. The righteousness and holiness and humility of God. And another kind of wisdom which is diabolically opposed to it in every point in particular.
21:14 -  What is its moral wisdom? What are its principles of operation? Lust, force, power, threat, seduction, intimidation, fear.
21:34 -  And by these powers, they have ruled and jerked and manipulated an entire mankind. We read in Colossians in the second chapter that he has disowned the whole of humanity. We read in Colossians in the second chapter that he has disarmed the rulers and the authorities of the air.
22:14 -  Chapter 2, verse 15. He disarmed the rulers and the authorities and he made a public display of them having triumphed over them through the cross. They are disarmed and defeated.
22:39 -  They have no effectual legal power to continue. They can only victimize the ignorant. The spiritually blind.
23:04 -  Who have not understood that these powers have been disarmed and broken at the cross. Can you understand why Paul wanted to know nothing but Christ and him crucified? Something is more at stake than our atonement in the work of Jesus at the cross.
23:38 -  God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself. Bringing back, as it were, the rebellious powers into submission to the purpose for which God had commissioned them. If they had known this wisdom, they would not have crucified him.
24:05 -  And every time that the cross is proclaimed, in authenticity and in power, their defeat is made more manifest.
24:21 -  Little wonder we hear so little preaching of the cross. There's a power in the cross. And there's a triumph that was won there.
24:35 -  There's a triumph that needs to be made manifest in every place. Through the presence and the proclamation of a believing church. Whose very presence is a statement to the principalities and the powers.
24:59 -  That their final vanquish and defeat is at hand. Where it sees this faith, this understanding,
25:14 -  this proclamation, the realization of this victory by those themselves who are no longer under fear or manipulation or threat.
25:26 -  Then are these forces required to recoil and draw back and release their influence over men in that area. We labor in vain if we do not understand this. What are our evangelizations?
26:02 -  Our Christian programs. Sound and fury signifying nothing. If we have not first wrestled against the principalities and powers of the air.
26:19 -  And broken their uninterrupted sway over the very areas where we seek to bring the light of God. I want to quote from a classic book on this subject. Written by a Dutch theologian,
26:44 -  Hendrik Berkhoff B-E-R-K-H-O-F Christ and the powers.
27:01 -  Such a little book. But such a gift from God. I don't make any apology to you.
27:13 -  That I am not myself God's researcher and scholar. This is a true theological work. I only thank him for the grace that is sufficient that I can understand it.
27:37 -  And commend it to your attention. I strongly recommend that you obtain it. And I don't even know that it's in a French translation.
27:52 -  And I want to quote some things from it. He writes that all resistance and every attack against the Gods of this age will be unfruitful. Unless the church herself is resistance and attack.
28:15 -  Unless she demonstrates in her life and fellowship how men can live freed from the powers. So long as we are a people who are fearful for our security. As long as we remain, we remain men and women who fear for their security.
28:46 -  People who still tremble when it comes to their own finances. And that we begin to model ourselves according to the ways of the world to have techniques to get funds. We do not constitute the slightest threat to these powers.
29:09 -  Something needs not only to be proclaimed but to be demonstrated. In the very life of the church. That it itself lives freed from the powers.
29:29 -  Free from fear. From anxiety. From seduction.
29:36 -  From manipulation. And how guilty are we of that. In our own bedrooms.
29:46 -  As well as from our own religious platforms. Things calculated to produce a certain effect. To obtain a certain response.
30:01 -  And so long as we are unconscious of this. And are moving in the very wisdom of the powers themselves. We constitute no witness against them.
30:22 -  We need to display that not only are we free from the fear for our own security. That we are free from mammon. Que nous sommes libérés de mammon.
30:40 -  But joyfully free. Mais que même que nous sommes joyeusement libres. Mais que même que nous sommes joyeusement libres.
31:05 -  Jésus, je le connais. Et Paul, je le connais. Mais qui es tu?
31:12 -  Oui, j'entends tes louanges. J'entends tes jolis refrains. Mais il y a quelque chose en eux qui est creux.
31:21 -  Qui n'est que simple chant. Ce n'est pas quelque chose que moi, prince des ténèbres, je suis obligé de reconnaître. Pour me plier à cela.
31:38 -  Au bien-aimé, il y a foi et foi. Il y a worship and worship. Il y a adoration et adoration.
31:46 -  Il y a praise and praise. Il y a louange et louange. Et il faut que surgisse de nous un cri qui monte de la terre.
31:56 -  Pour une authenticité dans tous ces domaines. Parce que lorsque notre louange monte au ciel. Et une louange qui est plus que le produit d'une manipulation charismatique.
32:15 -  Mais qui est l'irruption spontanée d'une célébration de Dieu. De celui qui ne nous a pas seulement sauvé du péché. Ne nous a pas seulement sauvé de l'enfer.
32:32 -  Mais de la peur, de l'insécurité, de l'inquiétude. Et nous a amené à ce lieu transcendant. D'une foi apostolique.
32:47 -  Qui est plus que simplement être d'accord avec de bonnes doctrines. Parce que les justes vivront par la foi. Je ne puis pas prendre le temps maintenant de parler d'une manière biographique.
33:07 -  Près de 9 ans en vie communautaire ensemble. Aucun revenu extérieur. Aucun emploi séculier.
33:22 -  Aucun lien d'organisation. 55 âmes qui vivent ensemble. Qui ont besoin chaque jour de manger.
33:35 -  Vêtues et logées dans le nord du Minnesota. Dans des températures qui sont très basses, presque arctiques. Là on a à faire face à des situations qui sont vraies.
33:54 -  Et où nous ne pouvons plus nous permettre de simplement jouer la grande sagesse de Dieu. Qui attend d'être manifesté au-delà de la Terre même, dans l'univers, le cosmos lui-même. Cet sagesse-là est réservé pour un seul instrument dans le dessein internel de Dieu.
34:24 -  L'église. Vous pouvez comprendre, je pense, qu'il s'agit là de plus que d'une institution qui fournit quelques services religieux. C'est un peuple qui vit affranchi de la peur.
34:48 -  Qui vivent déjà dans le domaine de ce qui est éternel. Qui sont joyeusement libres de la puissance de maman. Qui marchent dans la lumière, dans la justice et dans la vérité.
35:13 -  Where justice and mercy prevail, he says, in their own common life. Perkoff continue et dit là où la justice, un groupe où la justice et la miséricorde prévalent dans leur vie commune. Les puissances ont actuellement une libre domination en Afrique.
35:37 -  And inciting one race against another. And even tribe against tribe. And men are playing upon the words of justice.
35:49 -  As a justification for their own terror and violence. There needs to be a standard in the world. Of those who can speak to the issue of justice.
36:03 -  De ceux qui peuvent s'adresser à cette question de la justice. Because it has been established in their own common life. Parce qu'elle a été d'abord établie clairement dans leur propre vie en commun.
36:14 -  This is a calling for a church. C'est ici un appel pour une église. That is more than just a casual conglomerate of individuals.
36:22 -  Qui est plus qu'un simple conglomérat d'individus. A people together. Un peuple qui est ensemble.
36:29 -  Whose corporate intercession makes the principalities and powers of the air plot over the place where they are. Dans un groupe de gens dont l'intercession collective est capable de briser la domination des pouvoirs sur le territoire où ils sont établis. It is inevitable that such a church will be resisted.
36:52 -  Il est inévitable qu'une telle église connaitra une résistance. That the powers themselves will test it. Que les pouvoirs eux-mêmes vont essayer de la mettre à l'épreuve.
36:59 -  And resort even to oppression and persecution. Et vont même s'en remettre à l'oppression et la persécution. Jesus said that if the rulers of this age knew the wisdom of God, they would not have crucified the Lord of Glory.
37:13 -  Il est dit, Paul dit, que si les princes de ce siècle avaient connu la sagesse de Dieu dans sa diversité, ils n'auraient pas crucifié. The fact that they have not opposed us. Et le fait qu'ils ne se sont pas opposés à nous.
37:25 -  Is not a statement to our spirituality or maturity. Ne parle pas favorablement de notre maturité ou de notre spiritualité. But a scandal.
37:37 -  Et en fait, une preuve que nous ne sommes pas encore l'église que nous devions être. And oppression and persecution from these powers is inevitable. Et l'oppression, la persécution de la part de ces puissances est inévitable.
37:53 -  It is their final act of desperation against us. Car ce sera leur dernier acte de désespoir contre nous. Even as they were desperate against him.
38:02 -  Tout comme ils ont été désespérés vis-à-vis de lui. And rubbed their hands in glee when they had him totally in their power. Et qu'ils se sont frottés les mains de joie quand ils l'avaient enfin entièrement dans leur pouvoir.
38:14 -  He who went to his death as a lamb. Celui qui est allé à sa mort comme un agneau muet. Who did not resist them.
38:24 -  Qui ne les a pas. Yielded himself to that terrible power. Mais il s'est soumis à ce terrible pouvoir.
38:32 -  And by that yielding triumphed over them. Et par cette soumission même a triomphé. It was a final showdown, a conflict between two wisdoms.
38:41 -  C'était le dernier conflit, le conflit final entre deux sagesse. Two moral orders. Deux ordres moraux.
38:51 -  Violence, force and power. La violence, la force et le pouvoir. A vicious brutality.
38:57 -  Dans toute le vice de sa brutalité. Against a lamb, contre un agneau. Slain from the foundations of the world.
39:03 -  Qui a été immolé dès la fondation du monde. Who did not so much as open his mouth. Qui n'a même pas ouvert la bouche.
39:10 -  And suffered in meekness and humility. Et a souffert dans l'humilité et la douceur. The worst that could be brought against him.
39:19 -  Les pires choses qui pouvaient être faites contre lui. Revealed the best that was in him. Cela a révélé ce qui avait de mieux en lui.
39:30 -  The enemy's worst brought out God's best. Le pire de l'ennemi a révélé le mieux de Dieu. Utter malignancy.
39:38 -  Toute la malignité de Dieu. Met utter magnanimity. A rencontré une magnanimité absolue.
39:48 -  And we know who won. Et nous savons qui c'était. In the power of that life.
39:54 -  Qui a vécu dans la puissance de cette ville. He bruised the head of the serpent. Il a brisé la tête du serpent.
40:01 -  But it is left to the church to finish him off. Mais c'est à l'église d'en finir avec lui. Not just in this age.
40:08 -  Pas simplement dans ce siècle-ci. But for the ages to come. Mais dans les siècles à venir.
40:14 -  Not just in this world. Pas simplement dans ce monde-ci. So as to release its captives.
40:20 -  Pour affranchir ceux qui sont captives. But also to make an eternal demonstration. Mais aussi pour faire une démonstration éternelle.
40:26 -  Of the manifold wisdom of God. De la sagesse infiniment diversifiée de Dieu. Into the very axis of the whole cosmos itself.
40:32 -  Pour accéder au cosmos à l'univers lui-même. And then to the principalities and powers of the air. Devant les puissances et les pouvoirs de l'air.
40:42 -  I'm not in any way trying to be religiously impressive. Je n'essaye nullement d'être religieusement impressionnant. To find some rare esoteric subject that is rarely sounded.
40:55 -  D'essayer de trouver un sujet esotérique dont on ne parle pas souvent. This is nuts and bolts. Et qui vraiment dans le coeur de la question.
41:06 -  Utter practicality. C'est quelque chose d'éminemment pratique. The loftiest eternal purposes of God.
41:12 -  Les dessins les plus élevés, les plus éternels de Dieu. That affect our daily character and posture in the world as the church. Et qui affecte notre vie d'église dans le monde chaque jour.
41:26 -  If we see this. Et si nous voyons ces choses. If we consciously walk in the light of it.
41:31 -  Et si nous marchons consciemment, sciemment dans la lumière de cela. If we become acute in our spiritual discernment. Et si notre discernement spirituel s'aiguise.
41:41 -  And begin to sense the play of these powers in the civilization where we occupy. Et que nous commençons à discerner le jeu de ces pouvoirs dans la civilisation dans laquelle nous vivons. And recognize their influence through institutions of education and culture and religion.
41:56 -  Que nous reconnaissons leur influence à travers les institutions de l'éducation, de la culture, de la religion. We walk like giants in the earth. Alors nous marcherons tels des géants sur la terre.
42:07 -  Not only are we unimpressed by them. Non seulement nous ne serons pas impressionnés par eux. But we free others from their unnecessary domination.
42:16 -  Mais nous allons affranchir d'autres d'une domination qui n'est nullement nécessaire. I could give you some examples. Pourrais-vous donner quelques exemples.
42:23 -  These are the first steps in the walking out of this. Et ce ne sont que de tout premier pas dans cette marche et cette démarche-là. Two of the students that we hope to have come to us from Africa to America.
42:35 -  Deux des étudiants que nous avions espéré pu se venir à nous d'Afrique. Were opposed by the American consulate officer in that African country. On se sont trouvés face à l'opposition du consul américain dans leur pays africain.
42:53 -  He gave every reason why they could not be granted a visa. Et il leur a donné toutes les raisons pour lesquelles on ne pourrait pas leur accorder un visa. And every objection that he gave we sought to overcome.
43:02 -  Et nous avons essayé de vaincre chacune de ces objections. He required a written statement, we sent that. Il demandait une déclaration écrite, nous l'avons envoyé.
43:10 -  He wanted further credentials, we sent that. Il voulait d'autres titres de références, nous les avons envoyés. And still he opposed their coming.
43:16 -  Et toujours il s'opposait à leur venue. And so at their insistence he telephoned me from Africa to Minnesota. Et alors parce que eux ont insisté, il a fini par me téléphoner depuis l'Afrique jusqu'en Minnesota.
43:29 -  And the call came about 5 o'clock in the morning, our time. Et l'appel est arrivé à environ 5 heures du matin chez nous. It wakened me.
43:36 -  As you can understand, I was not at my best. Et comme vous pouvez bien le comprendre, je n'étais pas au meilleur de ma forme à ce moment-là. But he was.
43:41 -  Mais lui, il était. Perfect in his diction. Une diction parfaite.
43:47 -  A piece of American officialdom. Vraiment un éminent représentant du côté officiel américain. Very correct and precise.
43:55 -  Très correcte, très précise. Very legal and authoritative. Très légale, très remplie.
44:02 -  And good conscience grant their visas. Et il m'a expliqué pourquoi, en toute bonne conscience, il ne pouvait pas leur accorder un visa.
44:09 -  He had a moral objection. Il avait une objection morale. Because if he granted them a temporary visa,
44:15 -  he knew that once they got to America, they would seek for an extension. Parce qu'il savait que s'il leur accordait un visa temporaire,
44:23 -  dès qu'ils arriveraient en Amérique, ils demanderaient une prolongation. And somehow that would be immoral.
44:29 -  Et que d'une manière ou d'une autre, ça, c'était immoral. In my half-sleep-wakefulness, I agreed with him. Et dans mon état de moitié veille,
44:37 -  j'ai dit que j'étais d'accord. It sounded so correct. Ça paraissait tellement juste.
44:43 -  Et alors j'ai raccroché. Et puis la pensée m'est venue. What's immoral about applying for an extension?
44:49 -  Qui a-t-il dit moral au fait que de demander une prolongation de visa? If the initial visa itself is legitimate. Si le visa initial est légitime.
44:59 -  And who is he to have moral scruples about two precious Christian young men? Et qui est-il d'avoir des scrupules moraux
45:05 -  au sujet de deux jeunes chrétiens précieux? Whose heavenly morality far exceeds his own. Dont la moralité céleste dépasse de loin la sienne.
45:14 -  So I prayed about that. And I felt impressed to write him a letter. Et je me suis senti convaincu qu'il fallait que je lui écrive une lettre.
45:22 -  A rather strong statement. Une déclaration d'ailleurs plutôt forte. And I sent it to these two students rather than to him.
45:28 -  Et je l'ai envoyé à ces deux étudiants plutôt qu'à lui. Knowing that such a statement would prejudice him even more against them. Sachant qu'une telle lettre risquait de le braquer encore plus contre eux.
45:38 -  And I said you read this and pray about this. Et je leur ai dit lisez ma lettre et priez à ce sujet. And if you are willing to take the risk.
45:45 -  Vous pouvez lui présenter cette lettre. They gave it to him. And in the letter this is what I said in essence.
45:53 -  Et voici essentiellement ce que j'écrivais. I said there is a thin line between being an official and being officious. Je lui ai dit il y a une marge très étroite entre être officiel et officieux.
46:11 -  And this is a tendency and a danger in which all administrators in the earth stand. Et c'est une tendance et un danger dans lequel se tiennent tous ceux qui sont dans une administration dans la terre. And there is only one healthy corrective that will keep you from such error.
46:26 -  Et il n'y a qu'une seule ligne correctrice saine qui vous gardera de cette erreur. And that is to recognize that the earth is the Lord's. Et ça c'est de reconnaître que la terre est au Seigneur.
46:38 -  And the nations. And the fullness thereof. Et la plénitude des nations.
46:44 -  And those who dwell within them. You need to be reminded sir. Et je lui écrivais monsieur vous devez vous rappeler.
46:50 -  That you are only called to administer within a certain restricted sense. Que vous n'est appelé à administrer que dans un sens très restreint. To serve actually the purposes of God.
47:03 -  Afin d'accomplir en fait les dessins de Dieu. For as Dietrich Bonhoeffer tells us in his book on ethics. Parce que comme l'écrit Dietrich Bonhoeffer dans son livre sur l'éthique créaire.
47:12 -  Government itself is only an instrumentality given of God. Le gouvernement lui-même n'est qu'un instrument donné par Dieu. To establish that sufficient amount of order.
47:21 -  Pour établir un minimum d'ordre. By which the church may continue its life and its purpose. Qui permettra à l'église de continuer son existence.
47:30 -  For God has created all things. Car Dieu a créé toutes choses. Including governments.
47:36 -  In order that through the church. Afin que par l'église. The manifold wisdom of God might now be demonstrated.
47:43 -  La sagesse de Dieu puisse maintenant être démontrée. Well he was offended. Et bien il a été enfusqué.
47:51 -  But within a matter of days. Mais au bout de quelques jours à peine. He mysteriously granted them their visa.
47:57 -  Mystérieusement il leur a accordé le visa. This is beyond the issue of men and flesh and blood. Nous dépassons ici de loin le cadre simplement de relations humaines.
48:06 -  De chair et de sang. And I haven't quite savored the full mystery of this experience. Et je n'ai pas encore vraiment réussi à savourer tout le mystère de cette expérience.
48:18 -  But I think it is this. Mais je crois que c'est à peu près ceci. Something was expressed to the secular authorities by the church.
48:26 -  Quelque chose a été exprimé face aux autorités séculiaires laïques. Par l'église. Dans l'autorité et sous l'onction de Dieu.
48:36 -  Citing the word of God as our credential. And bringing these earthly authorities into the recognition of the limitation that God has set for them. Et amenant ces autorités humaines à la reconnaissance de la limitation que Dieu impose à leur autorité.
48:54 -  That required the principalities and powers that were operating through that American official. Et qui exigeait que les principautés et les pouvoirs qui agissaient à travers cet officiel, ce fonctionnaire américain. Qu'il se retire et le libère.
49:08 -  These men for the purposes of God. Pour libérer ces hommes pour qu'ils accomplissent le dessein de Dieu. There is something that God is waiting for in an entire church.
49:21 -  Il y a quelque chose que Dieu attend dans l'église tout entière. An authority to be expressed. C'est une autorité qui doit s'exprimer.
49:29 -  A quality of praise to be ascending up. Une qualité de louange qui monte vers le Seigneur. A depth of intercession that is corporate.
49:38 -  Une profondeur d'intercession collective. That will require these powers and rulers of the air to break and to part and to recoil and draw back and release. Qui obligera ces pouvoirs et ces puissances de se retirer, de reculer et de libérer ceux qui sont sous leur domination.
49:57 -  Are you with us so far? Est-ce que vous nous suivez jusque là? Can you take more?
50:04 -  Est-ce que vous êtes prêt à accepter plus? What is the manifold wisdom of God? Quelle est cette sagesse si diverse de Dieu?
50:13 -  That is to be demonstrated by the church. Qui doit être manifesté par l'église. I have already hinted at it.
50:21 -  J'y ai déjà donné quelques aperçus. It is the very antithesis of the wisdom of the rulers of darkness. C'est l'antithesis même de la sagesse de ceux des puissances qui règnent dans les ténèbres.
50:32 -  Where the powers celebrate force and violence and brutality and power. Là où les pouvoirs célèbrent et fêtent la force, la brutalité, la puissance. God celebrates weakness and foolishness and humility.
50:46 -  Dieu, lui, célèbre la faiblesse, ce qui est insensé, ce qui est humble et faible. It's strange how weak I felt tonight. Vraiment étrange combien je me sentais faible ce soir.
50:59 -  I wondered if he was physically going to make it up to the platform. Je me demandais même si physiquement j'arriverais à monter ici. Reminding God that I had but one qualification to be a mouth for this speaking.
51:09 -  Et j'ai dû rappeler à Dieu que je n'avais qu'une seule qualification qui me permettait d'être la bouche pour une telle proclamation. That it pleases you by the foolishness of preaching. Que, Seigneur, cela te plaît par la folie de la prédication.
51:23 -  To save them that will believe. De sauver ceux qui croient. That God has chosen the foolish things.
51:29 -  Que Dieu a choisi les choses folles. And the weak things has he chosen. Et les choses faibles.
51:34 -  To confound the things that are mighty and wise. Pour confondre les choses qui sont sages et puissantes. Are we majoring in foolishness?
51:43 -  Est-ce que notre intérêt principal est dans ce qui est folie? Are we willing to suffer the humiliation of weakness? Sommes-nous prêts à souffrir l'humiliation de la faiblesse?
51:55 -  Or are we reflecting the wisdom of the powers themselves? Ou sommes-nous le reflet de ces puissances elles-mêmes? And therefore constitute to them no threat at all.
52:07 -  Et donc ne constituons aucune menace pour elles. If we shall move increasingly as an apostolic church. Si nous sommes disposés à agir de plus en plus comme une église apostolique.
52:23 -  We shall incite against ourselves the opposition and the persecution of these powers. Nous allons attirer contre nous-mêmes l'opposition, la persécution de ces puissances. In fact for the first time I am understanding not only the persecution of Christians.
52:40 -  Et d'ailleurs pour la première fois je commence à comprendre non seulement la persécution des chrétiens. But the unspeakable vehemence and cruelty with which they have been historically persecuted. Mais aussi la vehemence et la cruauté indicible avec laquelle historiquement ils ont été persécutés.
52:57 -  This is more than merely putting men to death. Parce qu'il s'agit de plus que de simplement mettre des hommes à mort. This is flaying them alive.
53:04 -  C'est même les battres vivants. Sawing them asunder. Les scier en deux.
53:12 -  Burning them at stakes. Les brûlant. There is a viciousness and a cruelty.
53:17 -  Et il y a là quelque chose de vicieux, de cruel. A diabolical hatred. Une haine diabolique.
53:23 -  That fumes against God in men. Qui s'élève contre Dieu dans l'homme. And wants to make it surrender.
53:30 -  Et qui veut obliger la soumission et la rédition. And give up to its terms. La rédition selon ses propres termes.
53:38 -  But instead it gets another response. Mais au lieu de cela la réponse et la réaction est différente. Those who love their enemies.
53:45 -  Ceux qui aiment leurs ennemis. And pray for their persecutors. Et trient pour leurs persécuteurs.
53:51 -  And say in their dying breath. Et disent dans leur souffle de mort. Lay not this sin to their charge.
53:58 -  Ne leur impute pas ce péché. When Stephen sighed his last breath with those words. Lorsqu'Etienne a rendu son dernier soupir avec ses derniers mots.
54:07 -  The eternal power of that statement. La puissance éternelle de cette affirmation. Broke something in the powers of the air overhead.
54:17 -  A briser quelque chose dans les puissances de l'air qui était au-dessus de ce moment, de ce lieu. That released a certain angry Jew. Et qui a libéré à partir de ce moment-là un certain juif en colère.
54:28 -  To experience a prick against his spirit. Qui a senti quelque chose qui a aiguillonné sa conscience. To which he finally had to surrender on the road to Damascus.
54:36 -  Et pour laquelle il a fallu un jour qu'enfin il cède sur le chemin de Damas. Something happens when meekness and humility meets utter viciousness. Quelque chose se passe lorsque l'humilité, la douceur rencontre la colère absolue.
54:52 -  It is a demonstration of the manifold wisdom of God. C'est une démonstration de la sagesse infinie de Dieu. That these powers are obliged to recognize.
55:03 -  Que ces pouvoirs sont obligés de reconnaître. For nothing else can impress them. Parce que rien d'autre ne saura les impressionner.
55:09 -  Than the very nature of God. Que c'est la nature même de Dieu. The holiness of his character.
55:17 -  La sainteté de son caractère. Under supreme duress and pressure. Dans les situations de pression et de tension extrême.
55:24 -  As only suffering and extremity reveals it. Comme seulement la souffrance et le fait d'être réduit aux extrêmes peut le révéler. Isn't that what happened on the cross?
55:32 -  N'est-ce pas ce qui s'est passé à la croix? Jesus didn't writhe and groan to preserve his protoplasmic life. Jésus ne s'est pas tordu de l'horreur pour essayer de maintenir tant soit peu sa vie de protoplasme.
55:43 -  He yielded at the ghost. Il a donné l'esprit. Father forgive them.
55:51 -  Il a dit, père pardonne-les. And a certain gentile man, a Roman. Et un certain juif.
55:58 -  Un certain centurion. Un certain païen centurion. A professional brute.
56:03 -  Une brute professionnelle. A man schooled and calculated in murder. Un homme formé au meurtre.
56:11 -  Who saw many squirm and die on the cross. Qui avait vu beaucoup se tordre et mourir sur une croix. And spat at them in disdain and contempt.
56:21 -  Leur avait craché dessus dans le mépris et le dédain. For they were only men clutching their life. Parce que ce n'était que des hommes qui s'accrochaient à la vie.
56:29 -  Saw this God man die. Oui, il a vu cet homme, dieu, mourir. Under extreme duress and pain.
56:36 -  Dans une douleur et une souffrance extrême. But he died magnificently. Mais il est mort d'une manière magnifique.
56:43 -  And some words broke forth out of his mouth even beyond his consciousness. Et alors quelque chose, des mots sont sortis de sa bouche, même qui dépassait sa conscience. Truly, this is the son of God.
56:55 -  Véritablement, c'est le fils de dieu. As he walked, so are we also called to walk in this world. Et comme lui a marché, nous aussi sommes appelés à marcher dans ce monde.
57:07 -  God is waiting for one final demonstration. Dieu attend une démonstration finale. That shall penetrate to the very heart of the cosmos itself.
57:16 -  Qui ira jusqu'au coeur du cosmos lui-même. Demonstrated through the church. Démontré par l'église.
57:24 -  In the fulfillment of the eternal purpose of God. L'accomplissement du dessein éternel de dieu. I don't think my wife will be embarrassed if I share this.
57:34 -  Je ne pense pas que ma femme sera gênée si je fais part de ceci. We've had a long history of vexation and trial and conflict in being Jew and Gentile. Nous avons une longue histoire de conflits au sein de notre couple.
57:48 -  Entre le fait de l'un est juif et l'autre ne l'est pas. Male and female. The mystery of the church.
57:55 -  Le mystère de l'église. And how often have I reacted in anger. Et combien souvent j'ai réagi moi avec colère.
58:03 -  Or force. Of intimidation or threat. En essayant de l'intimidité de la menacer.
58:09 -  But by the grace of God. La grâce qui est donnée. Something being worked.
58:15 -  Il y a quelque chose qui s'opère. That some months ago she said something to me. Et il y a quelques mois elle m'a dit quelque chose.
58:21 -  Of such a vexing kind. Quelque chose qui m'a tellement vexé. That everything in me that is natural and human wanted to express itself in anger.
58:30 -  Que tout ce qui est en moi d'humain et de naturel voulait s'exprimer dans la colère. But by the grace that has and is being worked in me. Mais par la grâce qui est à l'oeuvre en moi.
58:42 -  And the privilege which is mine in a true community with God's people. Et dans le privilège qui est le bien d'être dans une véritable communauté du peuple de dieu. I heard myself responding in another way.
58:53 -  Je me suis entendu répondre d'une manière différente. In a soft way. D'une manière douce.
58:59 -  D'une manière gentille. Et pourtant d'une manière vraie. I only said you are a most disagreeable woman.
59:06 -  Je lui ai dit simplement tu sais tu es une femme on ne peut plus désagréable. And she blinked her eyes. Et elle a cligné des yeux.
59:13 -  And I just sensed something was being transacted in that very moment. Et j'ai senti qu'il y avait quelque chose qui était en train de se faire à ce moment-là. You may laugh, but there was a release.
59:23 -  Mais il y a eu une libération. In the powers of the air. Dans les puissances de l'air.
59:29 -  That had been brooding over our household. Qui avait plané sur notre foyer. To wreak their vengeance and their viciousness.
59:36 -  Pour opérer leur vengeance et leur méchanceté. That was required to break and to part. Et qui ont été obligés de se briser, de se séparer à ce moment-là.
59:43 -  And to lose its influence upon my wife. Et de libérer leur influence sur ma femme. Because of the soft answer that came.
59:51 -  A cause de la réponse douce qui est venue. In the character of God. A le caractère de Dieu.
59:57 -  How we shall react under extreme duress and persecution. Comment réagirons-nous dans des situations extrêmes de difficulté et de persécution. Is the issue which is before us now.
01:00:10 -  Voilà la question qui est devant nous maintenant. Our little impatience. Nos petites impatiences.
01:00:16 -  Our critical spirit and disdain. Notre esprit de critique et de dédain. Our irritation with one another.
01:00:23 -  Notre irritation les uns avec les autres. Is already in evidence how little prepared we are for this. Cela montre de par lui-même combien peu nous sommes préparés à ces choses.
01:00:32 -  How foolish we are. Combien nous sommes sots. That the very things that we have complained about in the church.
01:00:38 -  Que de penser que les choses mêmes dont nous nous sommes pleins dans l'église. Namely the trials and the irritations that come to us from other saints. C'est-à-dire l'irritation et les difficultés qui sont notre lot à cause des autres saints.
01:00:52 -  Is exactly the provision of God. C'est exactement la provision de Dieu. For the shaping of his Godly character in us.
01:00:59 -  Pour la formation en nous de son caractère de sainteté. To move us to that ultimate place of response. Afin de nous amener à ce lieu final de réactions et de réponses.
01:01:11 -  That when the ultimate persecution comes. Qui fera que lorsque la persécution finale viendra. We shall stand.
01:01:18 -  Nous pourrons rester debout. Graciously. Avec grâce.
01:01:24 -  And exhibit the wisdom of God. Et manifester la sagesse de Dieu. We shall demonstrate the triumph of the cross.
01:01:30 -  Nous allons démontrer le triomphe de la croix. By the eternal spirit we shall offer ourselves. Par l'esprit éternel nous allons nous offrir.
01:01:38 -  As Jesus did in that final moment. Tel que Jésus s'est offert. Comme Jésus s'est offert en ce dernier instant.
01:01:44 -  The eternal spirit was offering up God himself. L'esprit éternel offrait Dieu lui-même. So that in the ultimate moment of his trial and suffering.
01:01:54 -  Pour que dans le dernier moment, le moment ultime de sa souffrance et de son épreuve. The demonstration that was being made to the powers. La démonstration qui se faisait à ce moment-là, aux puissances.
01:02:04 -  That made of them an open spectacle and a spoil. Qui a fait de un spectacle. Was the demonstration of God being all in all.
01:02:13 -  Etait la démonstration de Dieu qui est tout en tous. Bringing to the core of the cosmos his quint essential self. Amenant au coeur du cosmos la quintessence de ce qu'il est lui-même.
01:02:28 -  Amen. Lorsque cette même démonstration sera faite en nous. Alors le triomphe sera achevé.
01:02:54 -  Les pouvoirs seront démolichés. La création sera libérée. Et toute autorité sera vécue.
01:03:06 -  Et le dernier ennemi, qui est la mort, sera vaincu. Voilà le dessein éternel de Dieu pour l'Eglise. La phrase « être crucifié avec Christ » n'est pas pour nous un luxe ou une option facultative.
01:03:32 -  Elle est le fondement même de notre victoire. Car lorsque vous aurez une fois connu cette mort-là et que vous serez ressuscité en nouveauté de vie,
01:03:50 -  alors de quoi aurez-vous craint? C'est ici un appel pour la maturité. Pour une église qui parvienne à sa maturité, à sa plénitude.
01:04:07 -  Selon le dessein éternel de Dieu qu'il nous a réservé. Pour lequel il a créé toutes choses afin que, par l'Eglise, la sagesse infinie de Dieu soit maintenant connue
01:04:28 -  des puissances et des pouvoirs de l'air. Ne pensez pas que ce que vous avez entendu ce soir est une explication complète de ces choses. Ce n'est qu'une première affirmation, mais néanmoins nécessaire.
01:04:48 -  Et je peux vous dire que les puissances des ténèbres ne sont pas heureuses. Mais c'est une semence qui est semée dans votre esprit. Afin de vous ouvrir à une toute nouvelle dimension de réflexion.
01:05:09 -  Pour pouvoir être à même de reconnaître quelle est notre haute vocation en Christ Jésus. Sachant qu'il y a un but à notre existence qui dépasse ce qui nous concerne en tant qu'individus.
01:05:30 -  Qui dépasse même le fait d'un royaume qui vient sur cette terre. Parce que c'est quelque chose qui dépasse même la terre et qui a un effet sur les siècles à venir. C'est quelque chose qui attrait à tout l'ordre moral du cosmos lui-même.
01:05:53 -  Et le dessein de Dieu qui est réservé par Dieu à l'église. Aux puissions nous voir quelle est notre vocation. Et nous lever pour l'assumer.
01:06:10 -  Et pour recevoir toute difficulté, toute épreuve qui vient dans notre expérience, dans notre vie. Comme étant quelque chose qui vient de sa main à lui. Cela nous donnera une nouvelle perspective de la souffrance.
01:06:32 -  Quelque chose qui nous permettra d'être beaucoup plus réaliste dans notre manière d'envisager la persécution future. Non pas quelque chose pour laquelle nous devrions faire le deuil, mais nous réjouir devant le privilège qui est le nôtre. Et devant la haute vocation, éternellement en lui.
01:06:57 -  I want to pray for this. Thank you, Precious God, for the day of small beginnings. It was only a little thing that was birthed in the stable at Bethlehem.
01:07:47 -  And yet it already contained all of the things that pertained to the King. I pray for this little thing in which we are caught up together today. This seminar so called in these days.
01:08:13 -  That it might be a time of birthing. The conceiving of holy things. First statements and declarations.
01:08:32 -  A new quality of apostolic faith. That comes by hearing. And hearing by the word which is sent.
01:08:45 -  Lord brood over us jealously. And water and nurture the seed being sown. May it take deep root.
01:09:01 -  And come forth as a root out of a dry ground. A planting of the Lord. That will be eternally fruitful.
01:09:18 -  I pray blessing on the words which have been given. Seal it unto our spirits. And whatever we have not understood at the first hearing with our minds.
01:09:39 -  May something rise up from within our spirits. To the level of consciousness and deep understanding. Of the kind that profoundly affects our conduct and our life.
01:10:03 -  May we see each other in a new light from this night. Not just as strangers alongside each other. Sharing a common facility.
01:10:24 -  But as together as the church. Called to eternal purpose. May we give ourselves to it.
01:10:36 -  Sacrificially. Through the eternal spirit. That unto you there might be a glory.
01:10:47 -  World without end. Throughout all ages. In Jesus name we pray.
01:10:56 -  Amen.