Apostolic Proclamation 1 of 2

00:00 -  So I wrote a paper at the seminary, I think it was called, The Genius of Apostolic Transmission. What is the anatomy? What is the, in particular, quality of apostolic proclamation that distinguishes it from all
00:19 -  other speaking? What does it mean that a prophet is an inspired preacher? The word has suffered great loss.
00:30 -  Preacher, almost like the bottom of the pile, like if you can't do anything else, you know, you can preach. But the first statement of the anointed ministry of Jesus, where he recites Isaiah 61 in the
00:51 -  synagogue and says, this day these scriptures have been fulfilled in your hearing, reads in Luke 4, 18, the spirit of the Lord is upon me because he hath anointed me to preach. Just stop right there, he hath anointed me to preach.
01:10 -  The first statement of the messianic call. So there's a conjunction between anointing and preaching. Any preaching that is not anointed is not preaching, it's oratory.
01:28 -  So this is a remarkable phenomenon, and it's a life and death phenomenon, because how shall they hear of him, how shall they call upon him of whom they've not heard, and how shall they hear except one preach, and how shall one preach except he be sent, is the heart
01:50 -  of the whole mission calling of the church and particularly to the Jew. And somewhere in the course of this paper, I take that up in a little bit more detail, that what they're waiting to hear unbeknownst to them is preaching of a particular and
02:07 -  ultimate kind, namely apostolic preaching. The preaching of one who is sent, because God gives not the spirit unto measure to him. He whom he sends, to him the spirit is given without measure.
02:29 -  So this sending is critical, and we talked about it somewhat, a sending community. have to be sent from someplace, and the nexus is a community of a particular kind. So I just want to pray now, and I'm just wondering, I've had another flicker of thought, if maybe
02:49 -  I should just go through this entire 12 or 13 page paper without interruption, and you can write down little notes to yourself of questions that you want to raise, but we should go through this uninterruptedly and then come back over it, okay?
03:05 -  We'll get the whole flow, because some of the questions you might raise will be touched on the very next page. So Lord, we count this as a particular and special occasion, for if we are called to
03:21 -  anything, it is to be the bearers of your word. And we know, my God, that there has been much loss in this regard, and that your own prophets have said that there'll be a famine for the word of the Lord in the last days.
03:37 -  Men will run to and fro. That there'll be a profusion of speaking, as there is even now, welters of tapes and videos and communications of all kinds, and yet in the midst of it, a famine for the hearing
03:53 -  of the word of the Lord. So precious God, we ask that you would give us a deep, fresh, new perception of this holy sacrament, your word.
04:09 -  What distinguishes it? What is the anatomy of it? What is required in the bringing of it forth?
04:16 -  What is prophetic proclamation, seeing that men are out to establish their reputations and their acceptance on some basis other than the word proclaimed? And use, my God, this rudimentary thing that you allowed me to write at the seminary to
04:34 -  open a vista for us and to suck the marrow from the bone. Lord, we want to be changed in our character and our life and in our ministry, that the word of the Lord in our mouth would be truth.
04:49 -  Bless us now, open our understanding, my God, make us keen students to dig out, Lord, all that you would have us to understand and to hold in thanking, give you the praise for the privilege.
05:02 -  In Jesus' name, amen. As it happens, sometimes you can write one paper and have it to serve for two different classes.
05:18 -  So the one paper that I wrote in one class, it was called The Preached Word as Divine Event, semicolon or colon, Preaching as Humiliation. That was the title in one class, and the other was The Genius of Apostolic Transmission.
05:35 -  And it was the same paper for both classes, and I got credit for both. I quote 1 Corinthians 1, 18, 21, the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God.
05:54 -  For since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through wisdom, they pleased God through the folly of what we preach. To probe for and articulate a certain theory of apostolic transmission or oral communication
06:11 -  that may not have been adequately recognized till now, the reasons might lie perhaps in the failure to be sufficiently literal in our attention to Paul. It is my contention that the word of the cross is the power of God.
06:35 -  That is, it contains an inherent divinely penetrating ability to register divine truths despite the severest religious, cultural, and ethnic resistances, as well as to create faith so as to believe unto salvation.
06:56 -  That is a mouthful. So it's the word of God as event, and not event under auspicious circumstances, but inauspicious.
07:08 -  That is to say, an event despite resistance. Say heavenly word proclaimed in the earth, not to those who are willing hearers, but resistant hearers, for the earth resists heaven, and every power of darkness wants to cloud
07:32 -  the minds of men, keep them from understanding, keep them from response, and we've talked about this when we talked about Israel, the whole history of the enmity of the Jew and Gentile, of the historic relationship of the church and the synagogue, the prejudice, the
07:52 -  forced conversions, the exile, the threats, Jews required on Easter to hear messages on the passion of Christ and prodded to be kept awake, and rabbis forced into disputations publicly with Christian scholars to show them the error of the Judaistic rejection
08:13 -  of Christ, and this has been the history of Jews in Europe. Everything is calculated against understanding, so it requires a word of an ultimate kind. So I just want to read again what I've just gone over.
08:41 -  This word of the cross is the power of God. There's something inherent in the word that is a power. It contains an inherently divine penetrating ability to register divine truths despite
08:58 -  the severest religious, cultural, and ethnic resistances, as well as to create faith so as to believe unto salvation. It performs a work in them that believe, or a work that has brought them to the place
09:14 -  of believing, and that is some work. That is a paraphrase of a statement in 1 Thessalonians where Paul says something like, you know that When you heard the word of God, you received it for what it is.
09:29 -  Not the word of man, but the word of God which produces a work in them that believe. What kind of a work was it? Sufficient to turn men from serving idols to serving the living God, and to wait for
09:45 -  his son who comes from heaven to save them from the wrath to come. What a work that is. It's good to God that that work has been performed, or is being performed in the modern
09:54 -  world today. You say, well how come? Because they're not hearing what the Thessalonians heard.
10:00 -  They're not hearing an apostolically preached word. They're hearing a word of a lesser and another kind. The content of those words may very much be the same, but there's a particular power and
10:13 -  a penetration sufficient to loose men from the idols that they're not hearing, and that's the genius. That is, we've lost it and it needs to be found again.
10:23 -  Paul had it, and his word was a work in those that heard it. The phrase word of God then is not so much a generic terminology, but literally a word of God.
10:36 -  You know, we have to pause to say that, but this is how we turn a holy thing into a cliché. We say the word of God, the word of God, the word of God, the word of God, becomes dribble, that almost anything that is spoken becomes the word of God.
10:50 -  It's the word of God, or it's not the word of God. It's a divine communication of a uniquely powerful kind, expressed through a human vessel under conditions which I hope to suggest in the course of this paper.
11:04 -  Paul's own acute awareness of the phenomenon is expressed in the first epistle to the Thessalonians, the scriptures that we're just talking about, and for this reason we also constantly thank God that when you receive from us the word of God's message, you accepted it not as the
11:19 -  word of men, but for what it really is, the word of God which also performs its work in you who believe that. I added the word that.
11:31 -  Something is required from the hearer to believe that what they're hearing is the word of God. But think of the presumption of Paul to say, for what it really is, there's no question in his mind.
11:43 -  And if there's a question in any mind of a man who speaks it, it no longer is the word of God. If the speaker himself equivocates, if he himself has not the faith to believe that
11:53 -  the word out of his mouth is the word of God, then it's not. It then becomes his word. It's biblical, but it's not the word of God as event.
12:03 -  Paul believed that, and that has characterized my own naivety. I have believed that, and I have reason to believe it, because it's so often, if not invariably born out of weakness, that if there's any word at all proceeding out of my mouth,
12:20 -  it has to be God. From what other source could it have come? And when is my witness?
12:25 -  How I came off the airport there at San Antonio, what do you call that, ramp, absolutely depleted coming from that conference in North Carolina with the Black Believers and kind of Rick Joyner and every other kind of thing, an hour or two away from the first meeting of five
12:46 -  or six days of meetings and saying, when, never having met the man before, brother, I just have to tell you, I am absolutely bereft of anything. I'm a zero.
12:56 -  I have no inspiration. I have no thought. I have no knowledge.
12:59 -  I have no understanding. I have no strength. I'm at a loss.
13:02 -  And then embarked six days of tapes and messages so precious that I sent all 11 of them to Rick Joyner for transcription and hopeful publication. It was the word of God to those who believe.
13:21 -  That doesn't mean that you hope, hope, hope that it's that. But as we go on, we'll see what is required that it should be that a measure of the efficacy of that word can be intimated from the depth of conversion from paganism indicated in the
13:34 -  statement, how you turn from God, from idols to serve the living and true God, a conversion of such authenticity as to invoke persecution, seeing that they, quote, also endured the same suffering at the hands of your own countrymen, unquote, indicates that to be that rightly
13:50 -  could pull boast for our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit with full conviction, which I believe we need to read not as a generous rhetoric, but a literal and accurate description of a particular mode of transmission rare
14:07 -  in our own time. In the distinctive nature of this communication, if the distinctive nature of this communication is its power, what is its character?
14:17 -  What can be observed from the text in First Corinthians that would give hint to the keys to be found in apostolic preaching? Paul is careful to instruct his Greek correspondence, contrary to their own culture and love of rhetoric,
14:30 -  that the preaching of the gospel can actually be voided of its power if it is expressed in the eloquent wisdom of men. This is an especially significant thing Paul writing to Greeks, because the Greeks prided
14:43 -  themselves in eloquence, prided themselves in rhetoric, and Paul is saying that the word of God is something altogether and qualitatively different from that, and if in fact you lapse into a human eloquence, you avoid the statement of its power.
15:01 -  Equating the gospel with, quote, the word of the cross, unquote, which though followed to men, is itself the power of God, and in chapter 2 we read in First Corinthians, when I came to you, brethren, I did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God in lofty words
15:14 -  and excellency of speech or of wisdom. My speech and my message were not implausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and power.
15:27 -  At a time when I had spoken the Ezekiel 37 message at a church in Nashville where they went down in a remarkable prostration before God, I was driven home after that meeting by one of the young leaders of that congregation who has since left it by things that were
15:41 -  set in motion because of that visit, and he said something like, that was an apostolic event. I said, well, strange you should say that, I mean, it may have been a prophetic statement.
15:52 -  I said, what makes you think it's apostolic? He said the power. I said, but there were no signs and wonders, there were no apostolic indications of miracle
16:01 -  that would attest to that. He said the bringing of men down into death and the being raised up again into a new quality of life is that power.
16:12 -  So I'd never before seen it or understood it that way. We always look for other signs and attestations, but the word that can perform that is ultimate power.
16:24 -  And I don't have time to elaborate, but I don't think it was accidental that I was wakened from a nap, already asleep in the pastor's office while the service was on, on the final message after some controversy as usual being generated in those days, and had to stand
16:42 -  before these people rubbing my eyes, you know, and that they could visibly see that what they were hearing could not come out of a man who was all primed and ready to go, but had just been wakened.
16:54 -  And right out of that sleepiness and low keyed kind of dullness, whoosh, came an eruption of the life of God. And from that point on, it was the word of God.
17:08 -  So what I would like to advance is that the word of the cross is not necessarily the statement or description of the actual crucifixion of Jesus. The word of the cross doesn't mean that it's the word describing the cross.
17:20 -  There's another meaning implicit in that, even when the cross itself is not necessarily the subject matter, it can still be the word of the cross. Even in the same way when Paul talks about preaching Christ and Him crucified, or we
17:35 -  talk about preaching Jesus, you can preach Jesus without making Jesus the ostensible subject of the preaching, and it's still Him. And I hope to develop that as we go on.
17:48 -  The substance of the anatomy of that event replicated in the humiliation of the preaching itself. What makes it the preaching of the cross?
17:59 -  That the substance of that event replicates the humiliation of the cross. The preaching itself is a reenactment of the cross experience. Every time the cross is reenacted, in any humiliation that comes from an obedience,
18:16 -  the power that was demonstrated at the cross in the first is again given opportunity to be expressed, proportionate to the degree of what is actually born or suffered in that humiliation.
18:31 -  True preaching is humiliation. True witness is humiliation. True prayer is humiliation, which is another word for suffering and death.
18:46 -  So wherever that is issues from the moment in truth, the power of God will always attend it. And the reason we don't see the power of God in preaching is that men take the pains to
18:59 -  avoid such humiliation by being assured that they're going to get through the moment through preparation, notes, outlines, other dependencies that will see that they get by. They are unwilling to take the risks of failure by standing there with their face sticking
19:21 -  out, trusting the operation of God in the moment for the word. Now I don't want to say that everything is required to be that total spontaneity. That's not to say there's not room for preparation.
19:36 -  But in the event itself, room must be made for God. And if we insulate God by our own religious, human, professional preparation, we avoid the operation of the cross, the foolishness of the cross, the suffering of the cross,
19:51 -  the humiliation of the cross, the power of the cross. So by this I mean that classically in the Gospel encounter the stakes are so great, the issues of eternity being at hand, that it is beyond the sphere of unaided human ability,
20:09 -  however sincere and well-meaning. That being so, no matter a man's natural qualification and strengths, he must in that tremulous moment be, quote, in weakness and in much fear and trembling.
20:21 -  I don't know how many times in the course of these weeks someone has said to me who is going to be speaking or sharing, I'm trembling. And I would say, so what else is new?
20:32 -  If Paul trembled, what, you not to tremble? But it doesn't mean that you're deterred from obedience. You still speak, but you speak with trembling.
20:41 -  Paul did, and we do also. Not because of the fear of embarrassment or failure, but a trembling that is aware that every speaking is the issue of life or death.
20:53 -  Would you think I would be romantic if I said that includes this man? That something is being brought, issues are being touched, consequences can flow from this, and what is assembled around this table and what will go on that tape, there would
21:06 -  be a point of difference of life or death for someone at some future time because it would affect the kind of quality of the word that they might have heard. Especially if we're talking also about the ministry to the Jews of the last days waiting
21:19 -  for an apostolic word, that by the very hearing of which faith might be created, it's a creative word. And what shall we say about the whole conclusion of Ezekiel 37 message?
21:31 -  That they're waiting for a word to bring them out of their graves. That spoken at command, something like Jesus at the grave of Lazarus, come forth. There the word of God had better be truth in his mouth, while Lazarus remains pent up
21:51 -  in his grave. It's not just the two words, it's the two words spoken out of a particular mouth, out of a particular life, with a particular authority that becomes the event itself of the very
22:02 -  kind that God created in speaking over the inert elements and the chaos when he brooded over the deep. That's where the trembling comes in.
22:15 -  It's not a trembling in fear for oneself, it's a trembling of knowing how important are the stakes. That's what I was crying out to the wind when I got off that airplane.
22:23 -  It wasn't like, boy, my reputation's at stake. It was seeing the importance of these days and what has been arranged and what is being expected.
22:32 -  Look at my condition. When I know that life and death is hanging in the balance in very eternity itself. A preacher who thus intentionally voids himself in trust for a word of God to be given experiences
22:51 -  a suffering in measure akin to that of the crucified Christ, in the dying to his own ability to speak, becoming foolish in a humiliation like the Savior's unto death. Here's a statement of what is at the genius, the heart of this apostolic and prophetic
23:12 -  proclamation and transmission. It's a preacher who intentionally voids himself. He sees to it that his own ability will not be his dependency.
23:24 -  And if he does not see to it, he allows God to see to it. That there be an exhaustion, a prostration, or some factors working by which he cannot look to himself.
23:35 -  But he voids himself in trust, it's an operation of faith, for a word of God which is to be given. He's the humble recipient waiting for something to be given.
23:52 -  And some of us who have heard messages like that are even conscious of the process taking place. It's like a man crossing a chasm with a pole, putting one foot before the other on a rope
24:05 -  and every step has got to come from God. And then the next word is the next step. And then the next statement, the next step, until step by step, statement by statement,
24:17 -  the chasm is breached and you have been brought to the other side and the whole people with you. You are on a new side where they could never have come before except by that word.
24:27 -  But it is given in a trembling dependency, virtually, statement by statement, word for word. A lot of the things that I pray, I pray like that.
24:41 -  I hear my prayers before I pray them. This order to then is not only hearing the content of the gospel, but the very as it were demonstration and manifestation of the cross and its peculiar power.
24:59 -  The cross is reiterated. There is another reenactment of the drama of the cross in the very speaking. There's a suffering humiliation and death in the speaking that releases the same quality
25:13 -  of power that took place in the first such enactment and will in every such enactment. That's why Paul says, I'm determined not to know anything but Christ and him crucified. And I suspect that Paul had very commendable natural gifts of eloquence, but he voided
25:31 -  himself of that. He would not make it his dependency because he wanted the faith of men to be established not on the basis of eloquence, but on the basis of the power of God, which is released
25:45 -  out of one who voids himself willing to suffer the terrible humiliation when you avoid yourself. I mean, you know what that feels like when you pull the plug out and you go limp and to do that before, say, 100, 200, 1000, 2000.
26:04 -  What difference does it make? The stakes are enormous. It's not your reputation.
26:10 -  It's eternity. And you yet pull the plug out and you will not allow yourself to do your dependency. In a word, the very obedience of suffering unto death by which the veil of the temple
26:24 -  was rent, again by the obedience of the preacher, sunders the veil over the understanding and darkened mind of the hearer, not only to emit light on what is otherwise patently foolish and offensive to human sensibility, but to birth the grace of repentance and faith unto
26:40 -  believing. A veil is rent again. It was rent in the crucifixion of Jesus and it's rent every time again when the same power
26:49 -  is released by the same humiliation. This time it's not the veil over the temple, it's the veil over the heart, the veil over the understanding.
26:58 -  Because have you really considered how patently foolish the gospel is? If you haven't, you will in the day that you proclaim it to a sophisticated and urbane Jew, who is the epitome of another wisdom and another knowledge, and all of a sudden
27:15 -  you realize the message that you have to bring to him is so pathetically offensive, so calculated in every point in particular to be at odds with human intellect and reasonableness. That forsook his deity.
27:32 -  He came down on earth, took upon himself the form of a man, of the seed of Abraham, born as an infant in total dependency in a stable, had 30 years of obscure unknown life, three years of a ministry that was rejected of his people, died outside the city in the dung
27:51 -  heap in the junk depot, nakedly on a cross, and that somehow the blood that was emitted in that process of suffering and death is God's provision for sin, and that there's a possible identification with him in baptism by which we are also raised with him out of
28:07 -  death unto new Israel. I mean, the whole thing, if you really think about it, God could not have given us a more feeble, pathetically inept word contrary to the whole ethos, wisdom, and mentality of
28:23 -  God, and he has calculatedly and purposely done that, that if anyone is going to be saved, it's not because of the winsomeness of the message, it's attractiveness, it's amenity to man's thought, but it's totally contrary, that therefore something has to happen to
28:42 -  make that word understandable and acceptable and received, and that operation is God. That's why Jesus said, except the Father draw you, you could not come to me, not by the will of man nor of flesh or blood, but of God. Of him and through him and to him are
29:02 -  all things. The problem for us is to believe that and to yet give our mouths to the proclamation trusting that this gospel is the power of God unto salvation, and of course you don't know it until it's coming out of your mouth. You don't have that surge of confidence before
29:22 -  you go. It's in the going and in the speaking, as I don't know, at some rate, I don't know what I say or where I say it, but how we had the ten day fast here in the first Ben Israel, twenty-four hours prayer around the clock, remarkable season for us in the history of
29:38 -  Ben Israel, and the first, the great message that came in those days was on the Sabbath, and the first thing that God required after those days was an outreach at Bemidji State University. I had been to Harvard, Yale, Berkeley, Stanford, Tübingen, universities in Denmark
29:55 -  and Germany and England. I'd been all over, but I'd never been to Bemidji. Well, what is Bemidji? It's a little dinky nothing. We had 6,000 students. I've been in campuses with 30, 40,000 students foaming at the mouth in angry, radical rebellion. So what was this
30:12 -  little patsy thing here? And especially after ten days of fasting and prayer, my God, we were ready to take the world. And we had a final time of prayer in Mon Broga's trailer. If I could have gotten up and spoken in the heat of what was generated in that moment,
30:28 -  the walls would have come down at Bemidji State. No one could have withstood it. Faculty, students, administrators, maintenance men, they all would have gone down. But the only problem was we had to drive to get there. And the 25-mile drive, I could just feel the
30:44 -  virtue going out of me, especially when we came up out of the country into Bemidji. And then you begin to see the visible evidences of the works of man. And when you come to the campus itself, there was the great TV antenna dish and the brick buildings and the
31:01 -  whole panoply of the academic world that speaks of prestige and substance and the values of men. By that time I was so limp you could have picked me up with a blotter. But we had to go through with it. We had made an arrangement. God had opened the door for us for three days
31:16 -  of meetings that were officially permitted. And we set up our loudspeakers out on the grass and it was started to drizzle and to rain. And the first strategy was to begin in the Student Union Building at noon when everyone breaks for lunch. And so there they
31:30 -  were and they were breaking for lunch and they were streaming in and out of that building and there we were positioned in the Student Union Building. And I was to begin at 12 o'clock. And people were walking right by me to go to the coffee machine or to get this like
31:42 -  I didn't even exist. You never felt more foolish and more weak and more nothing. And the guys were looking at me, the Ben Israel people, and I was looking at them and there was 1202, 457 and you just couldn't begin. And finally I knew that something had to begin. And so
32:02 -  I opened my mouth. Trying to get the attention of people going in every direction and talking, having their conversations and you're going to begin. And my subject was the soon coming judgment of God. That God has appointed a day. And talk about something going over like
32:22 -  a red balloon. But nevertheless, I saw actual smoke coming out of the ears of angry people and finally one guy got up. He proved to be a faculty member and he cried out, by what authority do you do this? How dare you come right into this campus and the Student Union
32:42 -  Building and our lunch hour and proclaim these foolish things. One of our brothers who had a black belt in karate was kind of getting himself ready for taking it. I'm going to have to intervene here. Well, that's how it began. It was an exercise in foolishness. I have never felt it
33:00 -  more acutely. And it went on for three days. We didn't see any result at all. The final meeting we spent all day knocking on every door in the dormitories and saying, if you'll come tonight, I promise you, you're going to see something that your religious experience has not prepared you.
33:15 -  You've never seen it in your conventional Christian experience. There's going to be a display of the power of God. It had to be. We were fasting. And we were exhausted by that going from door to door. Finally, the evening meeting came. Meanwhile, I'm waiting for the word of the Lord. Having made such
33:33 -  a lavish statement, I'm waiting for the word of the Lord and it didn't come. Finally, the people came, about 50 people in the room. And I had finally had to get up and begin the meeting and introduce it. And I thought, well, surely when I'll pray the word of the Lord will come. And so I
33:48 -  prayed. And I looked out there. I wanted to cry out, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? You ever had that feeling? At the most critical moments, knowing you're in the will of God and that he has appointed this and everything has come to its final conclusion, and you are a complete
34:09 -  study of absolute richness and emptiness, and where is God and where is his word? I prayed and people are looking though. And finally, someone from the Ben-Israel family said, you know what, Ock, can I share this? Well, this morning as I was having my devotional time,
34:28 -  the Lord quickened this and she read it and sat down. Then again, the painful silence. And one of the other Ben-Israel people said, Ock, do you mind if I have a word? Oh, okay. Then they came up and that one shared a verse. And then another one came up with a word of
34:45 -  testimony. And it's remarkable. I never said anything. That was the message. They heard the gospel in the fullness of the body. And the meeting was over. And I just closed it. And I was afraid even to give an invitation. It was so weak and so unimpressive in that little homely
35:05 -  series of hearings. And I said something like, well, if anyone has any questions, you know, feel free to come up and talk with any of us. And then I closed the meeting with Jesus' name. There's a guy sitting about this distance from me. He'd never taken me. He just
35:18 -  had his arms forward, glowering at me. He was the first guy to get up. I thought, here it comes. My Jewish profile ruined. And he said, I have a question. He said, what must I do to be saved? We ended up baptizing four students in the lake that night. I tried to postpone it. I said,
35:39 -  can't we do this next week or Sunday? You know, we're not prepared for baptism. And I had my best black preaching pants on. And they said, no, no. I said, okay, you ladies remain behind and pray. We men will go. And we went in the night in the lake right by the university and
35:55 -  baptized. I took my pants off. I went into my DVDs and baptized four men. Those four men started a revival and had a remarkable effect, particularly in one of the student fellowships near the campus. And about a year or two later, I came back to Bemidji. That was the time the Lord closed us
36:15 -  down. And I came for a single meeting. And someone came up to me and said, Art, do you know what happened to those men that you baptized? I said, no. He said, this one is in ministry. This one's gone to betray this one. And the spirit of God just came like oil. So it's foolishness. It's an
36:36 -  obedience of suffering unto death by which the veil of the temple was rent at the first. And it's rent again every time that that foolishness, that obedience and that suffering is experienced. It tears the veil over the understanding and darkened mind of the hearer, not only to emit light on
36:56 -  what is otherwise foolish and offensive to human sensibility, but to birth or to create the graces of repentance and faith unto believing. Perhaps in this light, we can better understand Nigran's statement on his commentary in Romans, a Swedish theologian. Here's the quotation. The gospel is
37:14 -  not the presentation of an idea, but the operation of a power. The same power, I will submit, which at the first rent the veil, split the rocks and release the dead from their graves, does also so effectively work in those who are privileged to hear the word apostolically given. It is perhaps
37:37 -  with this in mind that Paul asks in his Roman letter, how are men to call upon him in whom they've not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they've not heard? And how are they to hear without a preacher? How can a man preach unless he be sent? As it is written, how beautiful
37:52 -  are the feet of those who preach good news. To this do the scriptures testify in comparing scripture with scripture. For he whom God has sent speaketh the words of God. Really because it's out of the Bible does not make it the word of God. I hope that doesn't sound sacrilegious or
38:13 -  scandalous. It's only the word of God when it's the word given. And that word does not necessarily have to be a scriptural word. It could be a word of God. It could be a word of insult. It could be a word of confrontation. It could be a strange and foolish word. But if it's the word that it is
38:32 -  given, it's the word of God. And that word is attested to by the power of God. A lot of us naively think that if we quote John 3.16 that there's some magic in that. Only if John 3.16 is given is there power in that. It's got to be the words of God. For God giveth not the Spirit by
38:52 -  measure unto him. Because any man who will speak the words of God has already come to a sufficient depth to himself that the power of God and the Spirit of God without measure can be meted out to him without any fear that the glory of God will be touched or appropriated, misappropriated. A man
39:14 -  who will bear God's words and speak them however offensive they might be to the hearer and even to himself. Such a one as that can be trusted with the Spirit of God without measure. For God giveth not the Spirit by measure unto him. In the absence of the deep conversions affected by the preaching
39:37 -  of Paul in our own generation, one wonders if we have sufficiently considered the meaning of the word sent and naively have assumed that any promulgation of the gospel or an evangelization is as blessed and honored of God. Likewise, it is perhaps wise also to consider if any message,
39:54 -  however correct, is indeed the word of God, especially if they were humanly contrived to avoid the very humiliation which I am suggesting is at the heart of the gospel as event. The gospel is not a presentation of an idea. It is the demonstration of a power. It's an event. If
40:14 -  preaching Christ is more than the message about him but the showing forth of him, then the God who sends may yet be waiting for suitable candidates. The issue is the issue of the cross and one might rightly suspect that it will not come to men with full conviction except
40:31 -  through the lips of those who know the cross in their own experience and are willing to suffer the humiliation of it again and again in the very foolishness of their preaching. I can multiply the instances of my own brief experience of God. The one that comes to mind right now is during the
40:57 -  ferment over the Vietnam thing and student rebellions breaking out and the Lord had me to sit in a amphitheater at the University of Chicago and I even asked for time to speak on peace and I was given ten minutes. I had been out witnessing and I was exhausted and I don't know
41:20 -  if I even, it may even be in this paper, the description of it, and the Lord made that a factual confrontation and that night I spoke at a Big Assemblies of God meeting, a regional kind of meeting, lots of young people and on the platform exhausted and spent in my client's
41:41 -  basement pants with one leg a little bit more faded than the other, the Lord said very distinctly, Art, preach on the cross. That's all he said, preach on the cross and I got up, there was no question of what had to be done, I didn't know how to do it, but I preached on the cross and
42:04 -  it was devastating. I can always remember that the bodies spilled out over the seats onto the carpets, there wasn't a soul in their seat, a thorough prostration of God like a winnowing, like a scythe had come and whoosh, most of those kids had not even come with Bibles,
42:25 -  it was a kind of a youth thing and the whole air was frivolous and you know, good time and the Lord says, preach on the cross. So the issue is the issue of the cross, by those who are willing to suffer the humiliation of it again and again in the very foolishness of
42:46 -  their preaching, preaching is foolishness, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that will believe. If your preaching is not a foolishness, it is not a true proclamation, it may amuse men, it may entertain, it might even inform, it might even inspire, but it will never
43:05 -  be an event, never. There's something inherent about proclamation as foolishness when the stakes are so high. We would do well, especially in the seminary environment, that if necessary schools wanted the need for adequate court preparation to consider our call, for God chose what is foolish
43:29 -  in the world to shame the wise, God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong, God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, so that no human being might boast in the presence of God. He is the source of your life
43:45 -  in Christ Jesus whom God made unto us as wisdom. If he is the source both of our life and wisdom, what then of our preaching? And I'm writing this to a professor in the seminary who's on a faculty that spoke every day for the two years that I was there, in the daily chapel of the service,
44:04 -  there was always a place made for preaching, but I cannot remember one message. And I know with complete certainty there was never any scriptural or doctrinal fault with any word spoken, but it was simply not memorable. It was never an event, because these men knew months in advance
44:23 -  what day it would be that they would be required to speak, and you can believe that they were before their computers and they were processors, processors in their concordances, and they searched that thing out diligently. There wasn't any possibility that there could be anything in
44:38 -  which fault could be found either by the student body and especially by their fellow faculty members and administrators. There was not one who took the risk of foolishness, and therefore we went two years without event. Our own generation like that of the Corinthians to whom Paul wrote,
44:56 -  bears a greater affinity for sophistication and self-adulation than the God who made himself with no reputation, nor him whom he sent to count it all things as done. Fennelon in his book Christian Perfection calls us to acknowledge that, quote, we have a horror of every sort of humiliation.
45:16 -  The slightest contempt is unbearable to us. Indeed, if we have no other occasion to contemplate it, a true preaching requirement lightly considered will enable us to think often of our wretchedness, that we may have only contempt for ourselves and our ability. To preach is not the issue of skill
45:36 -  or learner technique, but a divine mystery, and the very word preaching is derived from the Latin prey de carrer, which means to make known. It was at the cross that an uninitiated centurion doled by participation in much murder and violence was compelled to proclaim, truly,
45:56 -  this was the son of God. Whenever Christ's humiliation is explicated in the foolishness of preaching, he is again revealed, set forth to be a savior, for just as, quote, God gives grace to the humble, so also does he who is full of grace and truth have opportunity to intersect time
46:14 -  and eternity, heaven and earth, in the moment of apostolic meekness when a preacher ceases from himself. A familiar illustration of this cruciform life is to be found in 2 Corinthians, where Paul exclaims, When I came to you, brethren, I did not come proclaiming to you the testimony
46:34 -  of God and lofty words of wisdom, for I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. One must assume that indeed for one of Paul's erudition in worldly as well as religious knowledge, that kind of self-imposed limitation required a painful determination.
46:54 -  He determined not to know anything except Christ and Him crucified, and that requires a determination because we know so much, and there's so much that we know that wants to find expression. It requires a determination to put away what is so accessible and so available to our preaching.
47:15 -  We need constantly to be reminded of the Greek context which celebrated human intellect and sophistication, and that indeed the very word derives from the Greek sophist, that class of professional teachers who instruct it in rhetoric and disputation. The word sophistication is Greek.
47:32 -  Sophistry derives from the sophists who were a class of professional orators who trained men in rhetoric and disputation. This Paul, in weakness and in much fear and trembling, intentionally and consciously avoided. My speech and my message
47:50 -  were not implausible words of wisdom. This foolishness, this voiding of oneself, I am contending is a suffering of a kind analogous to the cross, and admits to that degree it's very power. Why? That your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God.
48:11 -  See how everything rests on the preacher as one sent. That means that the community that sends him is a one kind with him, shares the same mentality, shares the same coercentiveness, or God would not say separate them to me, except the man is already separated,
48:28 -  and they can be sent by the laying on of hands by people of like mind and heart and spirit, who have come also to that place, and these are the men who turn the world upside down in power. In his commentary on verse 14 of the 10th chapter of Romans, how shall they believe in him of whom
48:43 -  they've not heard? How shall they hear without a preacher? Johannes Munch, a Danish theologian, in his book Christ and Israel notes radically, quote, that one cannot hear unless an apostle speaks in place of Christ. He's being sent in place of Christ. In another word, those that are
49:06 -  hearing him are hearing exactly what they would have heard had Christ come in himself. Now I just want to tell you, saints, lest you miss the moment, this is the high moment of the five weeks. This is the number of the matter. Being sent is much more than just being commissioned.
49:24 -  You are sent in place of another, and the other is Christ himself. There's a word that the Jewish people are waiting to hear, and only that word will save them out of death. Only that word can break the power of thousands of years of prejudice and misinformation
49:45 -  and rejection of things by which they oppose themselves. Can it be that the notorious failure of the church to proclaim the gospel to the Jew has been the absence of an apostolic preaching? That if the pagans of Thessalonica were won by
50:03 -  that word which came to them in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction, how much more the historically resistant Jew? Should they require less than the Thessalonian pagans? Playing upon the root meaning of apostolos as one sent in the place of another in the
50:19 -  authority of the sender and bearing his words, the Danish theologian continues that it is the preaching apostle alone who enables one to hear because he is the very herald of Christ. Through him they hear Christ's voice and speech, where it's as if we have come full circle.
50:44 -  For those who are just visiting now, we began in these weeks somehow by the reading of the Lord himself to take up the question of the voice of his speaking, that there's something in the voice, not just the words, but the voice, the hearing of the voice
51:02 -  of the words of the Lord. They hear Christ's voice and speech. We're putting in a scalpel and laying something there. We're taking something that has become homiletical skill preaching three sermon points with illustrations and the way in which ministers
51:25 -  are trained in their places of training of how to bring the message, how to win the attention of the audience, how to be humorous, how to have anecdotes, how to spice it, how to howl, howl, howl, howl, and this is where we're shoving that off the table and bringing another view to bear
51:43 -  about the holiness, the sacrament of the word preached, the phenomenon of the preached word that causes faith. It becomes an event. It is more than the transmission of information or knowledge about the gospel. It is the demonstration of its power because it is very God as he himself
52:07 -  revealed himself in his own final and ultimate extremity. Crisis reveals, and what was revealed at the crisis of the cross is God, not as we think him to be, but as he in fact is. So that a German theologian has rightly written, true faith begins with the atheist things that
52:27 -  should end. Christ on the cross is a scandal, a God hanging naked, unable to cover his private parts with his hands that are nailed and listening to the jeers and the taunts of his people come down and will believe you. I mean it's an unbelievable scene of uttermost degradation
52:50 -  and scandal and humiliation and God bore that. Learn of me for I am meek and lowly of heart. It's a revelation of God as he is and instead of railing back at those who are taunting him to say father forgive them for they know not what they do.
53:13 -  Monk says it is the preaching apostle alone who enables one to hear because he's the very herald of Christ. Through him they hear Christ's voice and speech. Again for he whom God has sent speaks the words of God and God is the word.
53:32 -  It's himself that comes through in the word and that is however foolish or even offensive if need be or contrary even to the taste or the choice of the speaker. Yet they are remarkably effective in penetrating for God giveth not the spirit by measure unto him. So then faith comes by hearing
53:49 -  and hearing by the word of God. Suggest then that the preaching that is salvational is not the relating of information about salvation or how to attain it or the facts of the gospel per se but rather a supernatural event that creates faith in the hearer through the operation of the power of
54:07 -  God. The cruciform character that is the life that is related to the cross of that speaking and the speaker foolish weak despised are the adjectives of the crucifixion itself revealing the fresh the crucified one as the Jehovah who saves Yeshua Jesus. The issue of preaching as
54:26 -  one's sin touches not only the matter of one's calling or of one's ministry in general but also in particular in terms of each preaching occasion even a prescribed or institutional occasion can be further into a cross event by voiding oneself anew in seeking the sender and yielding despite
54:42 -  the risk or loss of the divine interjection and inspiration as it comes. No matter the chagrin of the hearers their disagreeableness their whatever one can be confident that so shall my word be that goes forth out of my mouth it shall not return unto me void but it shall accomplish that which
55:00 -  I please and shall prosper in the thing where I thought I said it and that gives me opportunity to say you're not always going to see the scythe cutting through and then falling all over themselves and out onto the carpet and and the aisle ways you'll leave many times and you've not seen anything
55:17 -  but what time is lunch and the same obedience that on one occasion has brought men on their faces on the next occasion brings the aeons where Paul says know that your labors are not in vain and that the word of God does not go forth with if it's the word of God you may not see the immediate
55:36 -  consequence it's gratifying when you do but we have to be people who are beyond needing to be gratified that it's all the same to us in our priestly demeanor whether we see the prostration of men or their yawns so long as we are assured that it's his word that goes forth
55:55 -  because that word will not come back void it shall accomplish that which I please and shall prosper in the thing where into I send it there is the sense that then that the man is as his message and indeed is his message so how can one preach the cross was not already determined
56:14 -  for the loss of all which includes his reputation no accident by the way every time a man gets up his reputation is on the line again he could have left you out of your socks last time you have a whole
56:30 -  desk full of his tapes but this time all of that can be canceled in one speaking if he falls on his face and I'll tell you what if you adulate that man you can be assured will fall on his face so you know what you know what the temptation is not to risk your batting
56:52 -  average and not that not not to speak again I'm afraid to go back to Germany or any place where the Lord has given me favor and grace lest this time it goes flat and nullifies the effect of every previous time every time out again is another cross experience another risk
57:15 -  another willingness to be an object of humiliation and disappointment not to some impersonal audience but those who have become dear and to whom you've given your life and poured out your soul I didn't want to go back again to uh to Georgia I said I've
57:33 -  given you everything I have which I come back for but they insisted and we came back and came back for five days and they had another brother already there of apostolic stature so what were we going to do and but how the Lord unfolded those days and performed in the last day at event
57:49 -  by which the body of Christ itself was formed by a word and I went together in Tiberius and asked to share in a fellowship that was not a fellowship was a kind of a casual flowing in flowing out of Charismatics and other evangelicals
58:09 -  who came and went and there was no body and we fasted that day and looked to the Lord all the day long and spoke that night on the word that was given on the body of Christ and that proclamation that night was not a talk about the body of Christ it was the event that birthed it and that body
58:30 -  continues to this day in that strategic location in Galilee and how do you know art that is in fact the true body because of the persecution that has been engendered since that time hell broke was orthodox opponents set their meeting place a fire pregnant women were threatened
58:53 -  every kind of vile threat of death and and physical harm has come to people that they never experienced before so as long as they were a casual charismatic take it or leave it kind of people the moment that they were established as a body in that locality boom the issue was joined
59:12 -  but they continue still very formally and it was birthed by a word and it was a word that was given are we willing talking about reputation and life itself are we willing like Mary you know obedience unto him for that which cannot be explained to men
59:38 -  you're willing for the whole can we stay with her let it be unto me according to my word how apt are the words of those who came to entrap Jesus in mark 12 teacher we know that you are true and care for no man for you do not regard the position of men but truly teach the way of God
59:55 -  i'm submitting that this must be the description for anyone always who would truly teach the way of God how much more so in our own and perhaps final generation of that time to come when they will not into a sound doctrine but according to their own desires will heap up for themselves
01:00:11 -  teachers and they will turn their ears away from the truth and be turned aside to fables so the characteristic that marks the teacher's length of God is authority one can be correct without being persuasive let alone penetrating but from the outset of the ministry of Jesus it
01:00:30 -  was the authority with which he spoke that attested his hearers and they were astonished at his teaching for his word was with authority and they were amazed and said to one another what is this word for with authority and power he commands let's stop at this point take a break
01:00:50 -  and give this much to the Lord and we're not yet into it there's more so Lord we just thank you for this much precious God our hearts are always delighted when the cross is again raised in the midst of your people and Lord with embarrassment we say it has been too long it's hung up as a place
01:01:10 -  of decoration it has lost its central place and even the form of it has been transformed and the splinters removed and the ugliness and the pain the bloodstained aspect of it altered it's become an architecture a smooth thing and Lord we ask for the restoration
01:01:31 -  of the cross for the restoration of the cross is the restoration of power and that power must again be manifested in these last days for those who are sick Lord put these things in our hearts stab us deep my God with the requirement granted we should see that unconsciously
01:01:54 -  we have sidestepped these this requirement and have sought an easier way we're still a lingering concern for our own reputation how we should perceive how we should be heard how we should be recognized unwilling for the foolishness my God of trust that your power might be released
01:02:12 -  that the world might hear not only your words but your voice grant us my God a sober break and let nothing be lost by dissipation of idle speaking and bring us back with a renewed ability to hear you feel for this end we thank you praise you for the privilege of it in Jesus name
01:02:35 -  preaching and how the thing that distinguished Jesus was that authority what is this word for with authority and power he commands luke 432 and 36 recognizing that all authority rests with God one must assume
01:02:54 -  that the measure expressed is the measure given or better that authority and defined things is God did you think of it that way authority is God in the measure to which he himself is participating in what is being said remember Jesus said my words are not my words but the words which my
01:03:16 -  father has given me and if they're the father's words then the father's authority is in those words is that not the sense of the hebrew meaning of davah which is means not only word but event did you know that the hebrew word for word davah
01:03:35 -  means also event and there's something about the genius of the hebrew language that really gets at the heart of this a german theologian gehrhard abeling says in this connection quote for with God word and deed are one his speaking is the way of his acting we need to think more
01:03:58 -  in terms of word as event which is complete a dichotomy according to the way in which word is understood in the modern lexicon word is a verbalism our christianity is phraseological where as academic students we think that if we have memorized something or can recite it we have
01:04:21 -  it where we're fixated at a verbal level which is intolerable to the hebrew sense and the meaning of word word is event the gospel is God's word because it is God who comes to speak in it this is the theologian still speaking it is the communication of faith so in an hour in which
01:04:44 -  biblical faith is eroding many of us are content with mere scriptural or doctrinal correctness however bland but this abeling goes further and says we are not concerned with just a piece of information about God but with participation in him that is with an event in which God himself
01:05:03 -  is communicated i think this gets at the heart of the meaning of to preach christ it's a christ event God himself is in it his power is his authority his authority is his power and it's more than in the sense of a presence that's felt it's the communication of himself God himself is communicated
01:05:26 -  ditrich bonhoeffer that we have been considering in life together writes the church must here and now be able concretely to speak the word of God the word of power or it will say something else something different something human the word of impetus
01:05:43 -  or authority or authentic speech isn't interesting how he i don't i don't know if he was even conscious of what he was saying here or authority authentic speech one is interchangeable with the other if it's authentic speech it's authoritative if it's authoritative it's authentic speech
01:06:01 -  cannot be enforced by anything except the command of God himself there is no other basis it's interesting that in ezekiel 37 message son of man he commands the son of man to prophesy it's the word of God that is commanded that is to say you're not at liberty to frame it or form it
01:06:21 -  yourself to suit your purpose i think i gave you an instance and i almost was tempted to tell you where it took place but that a very famous charismatic thing where they were offended by my word and i was interrogated by this pastor and his three associates and their accusation
01:06:42 -  against me was not that the word was wrong but that the word was inappropriate you should have recognized the immaturity of our people and some of them are young believers and they can't take a word like that i said but my dear brothers i don't calculate my word on the basis of what i see
01:06:59 -  i don't first sense what is the condition of the congregation and then speak appropriately to that i only seek to find what is the word of God and speak that so we were we were jamming up and not just what was the what the message was but a whole ideological
01:07:18 -  question about the word and how it is to be approached and how it is to be spoken about so the word then is the word commanded if it's the bear God's authority it's the word that he gives and many times you'll not like it you would prefer to speak something else but you have
01:07:41 -  no recourse and tonight you're going to see a tape of exactly that i've never done this before shown a videotape i just happened to have this one and it's very fresh it's a message i've just spoken as with reggie and rick joined his place in left carolina and yesterday i read to you some
01:07:59 -  statements about the prophetic calling i said there was one response to it that was angry that called me unloving judgmental and uh joyless it was rick and so the one subject i wanted to avoid when i visited him was unprophetic lord and he had a meeting arranged i said lord let me speak
01:08:19 -  on anything else what does he have me speak on the prophetic calling and it became a bomb blast i hope i'm not exaggerating i haven't seen the video but you'll see it tonight of a message that was spoken in inauspicious circumstances where a whole relationship with
01:08:37 -  a man who's my publisher is already threatened he's already responded angrily to something that i've circulated to 50 others and now God has me to speak on that subject right before his face in his own place without knowing what the message itself is going to be only to know
01:08:55 -  it's about elijah and to open my text in first kings and to begin and you'll tonight be able to assess for yourself whether it was the word that was commanded the word that was given and whether it was a word of authority how urgent then to elevate the church's whole level of
01:09:15 -  regard for the word as authoritative to elevate expectation for what is faith if it is not that for the word as creative as beyond that which is merely informational and event the word that produces change that establishes the church simply does not have this expectation it is not coming
01:09:33 -  to hear the word of God it's coming to hear a word about God by a man himself who does not believe that he's speaking the word of God you know we think we're being modest but we're really being insulting to God to think that he cannot speak it out of our mouths we're limiting the
01:09:52 -  holy one of Israel and saying yeah it may come out of an art cats or somebody else but you know i'm just the local preacher here how dare you limit God that his word cannot come out of your mouth in fact if his word cannot come out of your mouth there's no hope for Israel for at the end
01:10:09 -  of the of this age it's that son of man company made up of flesh and blood like us who must speak the word that raises that nation from the dead and if you say that you cannot that that's more than insulting it's it's disobedient it's rebellious and it's a word that you'll be commanded
01:10:31 -  how shall we who are preachers and teachers proclaim that who have not experienced the word of God is that in our own lives more than the sermon it is the life that must be prepared another episode that comes to mind where i was stopped at the early part of the message by a
01:10:50 -  woman pastor in california and she went ahead and got in touch with those to whom i was coming as speaker got me canceled and the whole controversy broke and about the controversial message they never really did hear it the lord gave it to me on my knees that morning with our baby in prayer
01:11:11 -  and the issue was that the message should have been submitted before it was spoken i said if you had so little confidence in God's word through me you should never have invited me because i would never come
01:11:25 -  on a condition by which you first have to approve God's word before i could speak it fact of the matter is i didn't have it until this morning and they said well you know you need to prepare i said if the man is not prepared it's a vain thing to expect it in the message
01:11:42 -  it's the life that must be prepared the preacher having thoroughly prepared himself comes before the his congregation this is a quotation from detrit bonhoeffer first and foremost as a man who has been pierced by the word of God and has been led to repentance in the face of divine
01:11:58 -  judgment but also as a man who has received with thankfulness the gospel of forgiveness and is able to rejoice in it only in this progression through judgment and grace can preaching become genuinely original it's another way of saying if you have not experienced
01:12:14 -  it how can you authentically proclaim it which is another way of saying and explaining why there's so little preaching on the cross have you noticed that there is a dearth d-e-a-r-t-h a lamentable lack of preaching on the cross and i think that the reason is this most preachers are not
01:12:33 -  comfortable on that subject they have enough sense to realize that it would be a vain thing to speak on such a subject as that without more of a intimate personal experience of that subject than they want than they themselves possess better to speak about healing or or prosperity
01:12:52 -  whatever it is that's current which they probably have more experience in a word is hardly to be expected that the congregation will expect the word as event if the preacher himself has not that faith and he will not likely have it except that he is that that he has been the recipient
01:13:08 -  of the same ours is an age in which words have suffered enormous abuse and the credibility for them has appropriately been depreciated except that the church and its leaders consciously seek a restoration for the word of power and authority it will suffer eclipse there as in the world we
01:13:27 -  need again to hear the voice of the father as it rang out over the bewildered disciples in the mount of transfiguration hear ye him and when the disciples heard this they fell on their faces and were much afraid and Jesus came to them and touched them and said arise and do not be afraid
01:13:47 -  and i was just looking over there this morning quickly a series of messages given at given at lausanne at white women on the apostolic foundations and the last one was on the apostolic word and i quoted this episode of Jesus on the mount of transfiguration with his three disciples
01:14:08 -  and the father speaking out of the cloud hear ye him and they went down in their faces under the the enormity of that episode and Jesus touched them and said be not afraid and what i said about it is this it was not just a soothing word of comfort
01:14:30 -  it was an event they were not to be afraid because he had spoken that he commanded that his word defeated fear he brought them into a place of being by a word about fear but when we read that we think he's just saying now don't be afraid it's okay so it'll be over in a moment no he's
01:14:53 -  commanding something be not afraid and after that if you are afraid you're in a place of disobedience and rebellion the event has come the lord has spoken how'd you like to hear that speaking in the church and i know that the lord is waiting and wanting for it here
01:15:15 -  what i believe needs to be understood here is that the word of Jesus was not was not yet some well-meaning piece of human encouragement it was the same speaking by which the heavens and the earth were created it was a creative word it was not offered as a reason not to be afraid but the
01:15:32 -  very enablement and creative power not to fear be not afraid let somebody come into your being because of this word we need to expect this kind of apostolic prophetic speaking that is men who bring us words not just to strengthen our understanding but establish our foundations
01:15:55 -  the word has come the event has taken place now it is the outworking of it it has been my privilege at least on one occasion to see an expression of the body of christ actually
01:16:10 -  birthed this is what i mentioned before brought into being word did not exist by the preached word as event before the message a transient conglomerate of unrelated souls afterwards a viable structure of such a kind that it necessarily became the object of the most virulent attack by
01:16:27 -  religious orthodox opponents in galilee should it not be asked if the means by which something is birthed in God is not also the means by which it should be continued in growth if the word established something how is the thing that is established to be continued but by the word of
01:16:43 -  the same correct where to go on from faith to faith hearing to hearing faith to faith glory to glory the word of God is likened in scripture to milk and to meat how shall we receive what we have not believed for and how shall we believe except we hear for faith comes by the hearing of
01:17:00 -  the word it is the concluding verse of ephesians 3 if the concluding verse of ephesians 3 be something more than an apostolic rhetoric unto him the glory of the church by christ Jesus one is pressed to imagine by what means this is to be attained attained independent of the word
01:17:19 -  how is the church to become a glory unto him to him be glory in the church at this age and in the age to come by christ Jesus throughout all ages how by the word that word needs needs to come only in a moment and so many of us who are disappointed and
01:17:42 -  disillusioned and sometimes very defeated and dispirited by the condition of the church needs to know that if a word will come to the church there will be resurrection transformation in a moment things will be established in a moment and by that same power continued and brought
01:18:01 -  full maturity and growth it waits on the word about that kind of word Jesus said it is the spirit that quickeneth the flesh profiteth nothing the words that i speak unto you they are spirit and are life so i'm frequently telling audiences not to panic if they can't understand what is
01:18:27 -  being said if their mind is not entirely fruitful word of spirit and of life it will be lodged in their spirits and will subsequently be raised to the level of consciousness and understanding see this is new in our own framework if a message is not immediately susceptible to
01:18:48 -  our understanding our minds we get frustrated disappointed and angry that we think that the preacher has an obligation to make himself perfectly understood because we're so attenuated to operating from the cerebral level but a word of spirit and of life is another kind of word
01:19:07 -  altogether and i am to your faith be it unto you if this be so then it is critical to raise the congregational expectancy to hear such a word but how shall that be if we who are preachers have not the faith to believe that we are speaking it that the congregation cannot
01:19:29 -  rise above the level of its pastor his minister himself and if he does not believe that this is the word of God how shall they believe it so such an elevation of expectancy as faith needs to embrace needs to embrace our ministers as well perhaps what is needed is not only a heightened
01:19:51 -  regard for speaking but for silence which is to say that if we have not a word that is given to announce that fact and not fill the silence and alleviate the tension by what we can so easily produce of ourselves God's going to test us and wants to see the depth of our jealousy for the
01:20:12 -  word of God and yeah so the issue of speaking in the last analysis is the issue of silence the ability to suffer the tension of not hearing of having no speaking because our regard for true speaking is so great that we will not welcome any kind of equivalent or substitute and we would
01:20:38 -  rather suffer the tension of silence than to fill it with some expedient thing that is good even biblical but this this is this is priestly this this is requires a jealousy for the glory of God and insistence that the word that we hear because you know what we don't need to have our
01:21:02 -  ears filled with continual hearings six messages like that a year will suffice i don't know who said it it may have been lauren cunningham some wise brother said that pastors are breaking their heads to find some new word that will correlate the years of the
01:21:19 -  years and what they need to hear is six or seven good messages in the year propounded again and again because they have sucked the marrow from the bone and that will more promote the maturity growth of the church than some novelty of a new word every week the whole the whole issue of the
01:21:38 -  word proclamation and the hearing of it needs radically to be recast in these last days and that raises the issue of silence and silence raises the issue of maturity like last night can we abide the silence can we abide the tension of something that is not
01:21:55 -  smoothly flowing and and being filled up with with something that occupies our ears our eyes because we're we're we're sensuous and voluptuous and we need to have something happening that's auditory or visible when those things do not happen do we come apart of the sins can we sit
01:22:11 -  there in the peace of God and it's one thing to sit in the peace of God as a spectator but can you sit there in the peace of God as a participant or as one in oversight who's responsible for that night and there are people who have come as visitors and shouldn't we put our best foot forward and
01:22:31 -  show them what we can really do to remain silent then and suffer the tension which is another say form of suffering and dying trusting and waiting but not every message is a thunderbolt or a home run or bombastic some of the most choked splutterings that we think well look at
01:22:53 -  our prayers i may have mentioned this i love when i can feel the real surge of God's power in my prayer but i'll tell you there are other times that my prayers have been so limp i'm embarrassed to hear them coming out of my mouth and i always want to offer God apologies the best i'm able in
01:23:08 -  the moment but i find that he answers those prayers equally as well as the prayers that have been registered with impact there are times when we'll leap like a lamb and there are other times we'll roar like the lion of juda the thing is it's not an hour of control the one or the other and
01:23:27 -  accept that you're willing to be a lamb and to be faint voiced and weak and seemingly unanointed and watch the people drawn in your face you'll not be the same vessel that God will use to roar as the line of juda it's not for us not only am i not able and do not desire that i should form
01:23:46 -  the word that determine its content i would not even want to touch the mode of the speaking and the mood of it that that is equally as much the province of God as the content the mood of the speaking and the manner of the speaking and some of you who have been through this with the lord
01:24:04 -  know that when it pleases him you can't even lift your hands you can't make a gesture you can't add any schmaltz you can't give it a little zap you just stand there with your hands limply at your side and your voice goes off in the monotone you cannot even so much as fall to your voice
01:24:21 -  now yeah are you willing to be so regulated and yet i've seen messages like that the holocaust message in 1977 was just like that it was not a powerful preaching statement it was a monotone read as an outline off of the yellow pages of the legal path but when it was over i have never seen
01:24:40 -  a reaction to the word of God more powerful before or since in 28 years 2 000 people were absolutely devastated it was an historic event but it was read as a monotone and don't you think i wanted to give it a little zap a little i couldn't and i just resigned what i just knew the lord is at the
01:25:02 -  console this is serving his purposes and maybe all the more to demonstrate to that people that this is not a response to an emotional or moving word but the word of God itself spent like matzah like unleavened bread flat ungainly no there's nothing attractive
01:25:26 -  that we should desire it has no calmness that we should desire it it's the most unappealing insipid flat you know what matzah is flour and water period zero there's nothing added but there's nothing sweeter to the taste i remember in the depression years as a kid in brooklyn
01:25:46 -  a little girl came out of the house with a piece of matzah letter and she said as a kid who could not afford it anyway she said you know what