Apostolic Foundations - Priestliness

00:00 -  Taking a deep breath for the last night. Musing as I sat on the front seat about the foolishness of preaching again. No one knows more how miraculous it is than he who preaches.
00:30 -  And there's something of a special kind that God wants expressed tonight. Different from the previous nights and yet altogether related. And yet without this, nothing that has been spoken can be attained.
01:04 -  In fact, we would stand in a very peculiar danger of adopting yet another religious vocabulary. Just as we have been inducted into the Charismatic,
01:23 -  now we can be inducted into an apostolic form of speaking. Yet another phraseology, to which in the end we have just been rendered technicians.
01:49 -  This is the most horrible of all faiths. That we should have taken these holy and ultimate things and to make of them yet another weary religious form.
02:08 -  Something is required if we're going to be that prophetic living testimony, that vital church in word and deed and presence that is going to unmask and to reveal the principalities and the powers
02:38 -  and fulfill the eternal purpose of God through the church. The thing that will save us from being mere technicians is one thing only.
02:55 -  The knowledge of the reality of God. A priestly knowledge. Therefore, we are commended to consider Jesus in Hebrews 3.1.
03:20 -  Therefore, holy brethren, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider Jesus. But consider him how? As the apostle and the high priest of our confession.
03:47 -  Talk about the mysteries of Christ. I don't understand it. My spirit is wiser than my mind.
03:59 -  But this much I know. There is an inexorable connection between that which is apostolic and that which is priestly. We might attempt some fulfillment at other ministries and callings
04:23 -  without the necessity of having a high priestly center. Although I doubt that, but there is something about that which is apostolic
04:46 -  that is eternally joined to that which is high priestly. There are certain things that we grievously lack as an apostolic church today. One of these is the awesome fear of God.
05:17 -  The imminent sense of the soon coming judge. But another is the lack of a priestly consciousness. We have this as pertaining to some previous dispensation.
05:46 -  This is Old Testament stuff. I pray that tonight the Lord is going to alter our understanding. Because of his son, he says, you are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek.
06:04 -  Because of his son, God says, you are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. Not only is there a connection between apostolicity and priesthood, there is a connection between that which pertains to sons and that which pertains to priests.
06:34 -  This mysterious high priest, this Melchizedek, not descendant from the genealogy of Aaron, but a king of righteousness and of peace,
06:56 -  of whom it says in the seventh chapter and the third verse, without father or mother or ancestral line, without beginning of days or of ending of life.
07:15 -  But resembling the Son of God, he continues to be a priest without interruption forever. I tell you that this speaks to me of something that I covet for myself personally.
07:36 -  It's a position, a place that is a requirement for that which is apostolic. Above culture and time and language and nationality. It's without beginning of days or ending of life.
07:57 -  It resembles the Son of God. It's a priest without interruption. Perpetually.
08:10 -  It's exhausting even to consider this. The kind of priest who ever lives to make intercession for the saints. The Sacrificator who forever makes intercession for the saints.
08:28 -  Where is the source of his life, of his energy, of this animation? For ourselves, we are exhausted only to consider these possibilities. That God has called us to be such a church in such a presence.
08:47 -  Such a fulfillment of his eternal purpose. Such an agency for a kingdom come. We're spent just walking through the days of this seminar.
09:04 -  Session after session. We're battered and moved from side to side. We're battered, tired, tired and moved from side to side.
09:17 -  But what kind of priesthood is this without interruption? This is something other than a professional ministerial posture. This is more than just a function of a professional minister of worship.
09:38 -  Which would be appropriate, expensive, but which can be completely different in other moments of life. This is a priesthood without interruption. And in verse 16 of this same chapter 7, he told us that it is based on the power of an imperishable life.
10:09 -  Are you jealous to become this kind of priest, this kind of Sacrificator? Do you recognize that except that this dimension be added to our being, there's no way that we can consider Jesus the Apostle. No more than he himself can fulfill his apostolic dimension.
10:37 -  Without also being the high priest of our confessor. So equally is it incumbent and required of us. A priesthood of this kind.
10:53 -  Not on the basis of natural qualification. But an exact proportion as we resemble the Son of God. Priests without interruption.
11:09 -  Above time and culture and nationality. Without mother or father or ancestry. Beginning of days or ending of life.
11:22 -  A continual flow. Out from the throne of God himself. On the basis of the power of an endless and indestructible life.
11:36 -  A son who has been made a priest forever. A son who has been made a Sacrificator forever. And the verse 27 says that he does not need to offer sacrifices every day.
11:56 -  I like that. It is not only someone who is beyond a culture, beyond time. But even above necessity.
12:08 -  There is something about the nature of this priestliness. Of such an emancipated kind. Little wonder that it can give itself perpetually to the purposes of God.
12:23 -  That we can no longer be now amazed at what it can devote itself to the eternal destiny of God. Because the source of its energy is imperishable and infinite. It has no need for every day.
12:46 -  It is seated at the right hand of the majestic God in heaven. A minister in the holy place. The true tabernacle which is not erected by man but by God.
13:02 -  I love the fourth verse of the eighth chapter. If he were then living on earth, he would not be a priest at all. But if he were on earth, he would not be even a Sacrificator.
13:18 -  Am I bewildering you? Does this sound totally irrelevant? Some strange mystical reference?
13:36 -  If he were still living on earth, he would not be a priest at all. He is in another dimension and in the heavenly place. Anything less than that would invalidate his priestliness.
13:53 -  He has his true existence and reality in the heavenly sanctuary. This is a priest who can come before God in the holiest place of all. Only the High Priest can.
14:23 -  God has eternally fixed it. Therefore in Exodus 25, it's interesting to read the description of that holiest place. God gives it to us in extraordinary detail.
14:50 -  We know that the tabernacle of God, like the temple that came later, has the same essential architectural pattern. An outer court that is open to the daylight without any covering. And there by the place of entry is the bronze altar for sacrifice and the basin for washing.
15:22 -  Symbolic of our entry into the house of God through the salvation, through the atonement of the blood of the Lamb. And then as we proceed further, there's a second court. And this is covered by skins.
15:46 -  And there's a veil. And the priests daily entered. Not as many who trafficked in the first court in the heavy labor of sacrifice and fire and slaughter.
15:59 -  But those priests whose function it was to light, both at morning and night, the holy altar of incense. And to place the showbread on the table of the Lord. A room filled with incense.
16:29 -  A room that is shut off from the natural daylight. But it has as its illumination a seven-branched candlestick. And it is a much brighter light.
16:48 -  Not subject to the variables of the natural elements of weather. Sunlight. Submitted to all the variables of the natural time, light and clouds, sun and rain.
16:59 -  It's a constant light and a brighter light. But there's yet a final and an ultimate place. And few there be who have entered there.
17:13 -  It's the holiest place of all. The holy of holies. There's no daily traffic there.
17:23 -  Only one can enter there in the course of an entire year. And that on the basis of the blood of a pure sacrifice. In that place there is no seven-branched candlestick.
17:49 -  And yet it is the brightest and most glorious light of all. It is the Shekinah glory of very God Himself. It is His presence.
18:04 -  And it is over the mercy seat and over the ark of the law. You shall make a mercy seat of pure gold, as was told in verse 17 of Exodus 25.
18:18 -  And you shall make two cherubim of gold, make them of hammered work at the two ends of the mercy seat. One cherubim at one end and one cherubim at the other end.
18:34 -  You shall make the cherubim of one piece with the mercy seat at its two ends. One cherubim at one end and one cherubim at the other end. You shall make the cherubim of one piece with the mercy seat at its two ends.
18:52 -  And the cherubim shall have their wings spread upward covering the mercy seat with their wings and facing one another. The cherubim shall have their wings spread upward
19:00 -  covering the mercy seat with their wings and facing one another. And the cherubim shall have their face turned toward the mercy seat. And you shall put the mercy seat on top of the ark.
19:18 -  And in the ark you shall put the testimony which I shall give to you. Then this precious verse. And from above the mercy seat
19:30 -  and from between the two cherubim which are upon the ark of the testimony I will speak to you about all that I will give you
19:42 -  in commandment for the sons of Israel. Paul cried out again and again, Who is sufficient for these things?
20:01 -  Perhaps some of us have begun to emit that groan in these days. Even as we become increasingly conscious of the magnitude of what this apostolic calling is.
20:25 -  How do we move from an institutional age toward the restoration of apostolic glory? How do we communicate the dimension of things
20:40 -  that has been lost in our modern church experience? How are we to restore the sense of urgency and imminence of the things that shall shortly come to pass?
21:00 -  How shall we warn our generation that God has appointed a day in which He will judge all nations by Him whom He has raised from the dead?
21:13 -  How are we to be fitted for such apostolic confrontation? Where is our courage and our boldness? Our understanding and our sensitivity
21:25 -  as we thread our way through all this in these painful adjustments and accommodations turning from the power of tradition
21:38 -  and the established and institutional ways of men? To come to the formation of this living church, this powerful prophetic witness
21:51 -  whose presence alone is a testimony to the principalities and powers of the air? How do we move from an institutional age
22:05 -  toward the restoration of apostolic glory? Who is sufficient for these things? And where are we to find our answers?
22:20 -  How are we to be led even in days like these? In so wholly a theme as apostolic foundations? There I will meet with you.
22:40 -  And speak to you. About all that I will give you in commandments for the sons of Israel.
22:52 -  This is the alternative to becoming mere technicians. And adopting yet another brittle phraseology. It is to come into the holiest place of all.
23:08 -  The high priestly place that is open to those who come in the form of the Son of God without father or mother or beginning or ending of days
23:26 -  without the presence of the Son of God without father or beginning or ending of days It is the source of the indestructible life.
23:44 -  A source of inspiration and anointing of words that I will give you if we are to fulfill the mandate of God.
24:02 -  I would like to ask you tonight where you are in the house of God. Where are you in that tabernacle? Have you entered by the blood of the lamb
24:20 -  and yet remain in that outer courtyard the place of initial salvation and think that you have arrived
24:32 -  for a much better condition than you were than previously outside that house and content to remain there
24:44 -  as so many of God's people are the fundamentalists those who know nothing more than the issue of salvation
24:52 -  and continue to preach it Sunday after Sunday to the saved and do not know that there is a holy place beyond and that there is an entry within that veil by the Holy Spirit
25:12 -  symbolized by that burning incense the altar of incense which continually ascends up to God
25:24 -  a picture of the praise and worship that comes with the induction into the Holy Spirit coming from the uncovered place into a covered place
25:40 -  and introduced with it therefore to new concepts in the Holy Spirit and introduced with it therefore to new concepts in God
25:50 -  the authority of God, the officers of God the ministers of the church the concept of eldership and church government
26:02 -  the submission and authority of God and seeing in a much brighter light and seeing in a much brighter light
26:12 -  new things beyond the issue of atonement beyond the initial issue of salvation
26:24 -  you begin now to see the issues of the body of Christ even that of the kingdom of God it's a tremendous place
26:34 -  and a charismatic place of a new quality of worship and praise of seeing and relationship
26:44 -  of involving the serious and purposeful things of God but there is yet a deeper place that admits only high priests
27:02 -  that admits only high priests who are called also to that which is apostolic and here is a much greater light
27:16 -  beyond the issues of church government and order beyond the subject of the body of Christ and even the realities of a kingdom come
27:30 -  here is the stewardship of the mistress the mystery of the eternal purpose of God who created all things
27:46 -  in order that through the church the manifold wisdom of God might be manifested to the principalities and powers of the air
28:00 -  and this is according to the eternal purpose of God you never will glimpse this except in this light
28:16 -  you never will fulfill this except for the words that are given and the inspiration that is communicated
28:28 -  and the intensity of the life that is transmitted in the holiest place of all this is
28:40 -  between the wings of the cherubim above the ark of God and the righteous requirement of His law in the place of mercy
28:52 -  there I will meet with you and give you words all that pertains to the sons of Israel
29:02 -  and the commandments in authority out of my presence
29:14 -  in the holiest place of all I am speaking by faith tonight trusting for your faith
29:26 -  it's a really moot question of how well you are able to understand this have you been progressively brought from faith to faith till this night? because God's intention tonight is more than a dissertation
29:44 -  on the tabernacle of God in the holiest place His intention tonight is an entering
29:52 -  into the holiest place of all His intention tonight is an entry into the holiest place of all
30:04 -  without which there cannot be an apostolic fulfillment consider Jesus the high priest and the apostle of our confession you cannot have the one without the other
30:20 -  you cannot have the one without the other we will be rendered mere technicians and be victims of another hollow phraseology
30:34 -  God is bidding us enter into the holiest place of all to dwell in that presence
30:46 -  for there He will meet with us and give us all in command for the sons of Israel
31:02 -  I've waited a long time for such an entry waiting spiritually to qualify as much as I am at war with the secular world
31:18 -  something of its concept of evolution yet lingered with me that I had to evolve into a higher spiritual state
31:36 -  by virtue of which I would then be enabled to enter into this holiest place but I stumbled upon a series of cassettes
31:50 -  whose title was the following something in my inner man went click I could not rush fast enough to hear them
32:06 -  and I put the first tape on with great expectation something in my spirit rising to the mystery of this and I heard the first few statements
32:20 -  and I was tempted to shut the machine off some hillbilly American some coarse ungrammatical redneck
32:32 -  some coarse ungrammatical redneck not my style at all and as my finger went to the eject button
32:54 -  I hesitated because something began now to reach me beyond and through this accent
33:02 -  and even beyond this peasant accent that was beyond nationality beyond culture
33:12 -  beyond time beyond father or mother or beginning or ending of days and I continued to listen on
33:24 -  tape by tape of a man whose frustration was much like my own the risings and the fallings of the spiritual life
33:38 -  the good days and the bad days that rendered us incapable of saying with Paul you know what manner of man I was with you
33:46 -  in all seasons and I followed him in the scriptures through the book of Hebrews
34:02 -  how the law was only a shadow of good things to come and not the very form of those things that they could not make perfect those who draw near
34:18 -  but one came in point of time who can whose blood was better than the blood of bulls and of goats whose blood was better than the blood of bulls and of goats
34:32 -  whose blood was better than the blood of bulls and of goats who entered by his own blood into the heavenly place
34:44 -  and entered once and for all isn't it remarkable how simple phrases elude us in all of our impressive spiritual sophistication
35:04 -  we have not allowed these words to impact upon our souls he entered once and for all and he bids us enter also
35:22 -  and to enter boldly not on the basis of our natural qualification we have not to be descended from the Aaronic priestly line
35:42 -  this is another priesthood that resembles the form of the son of God to those who find themselves in him
35:56 -  and have the faith to believe and the confidence to enter the holy place by the blood of Jesus
36:08 -  you want to know something children? the long and the short of it is that we do not appreciate the blood of Jesus so much as the father does
36:16 -  we have come to appreciate it in terms of our atonement it is sufficient to wash away sin and guilt but his blood has done something more
36:38 -  it has opened a new and living way it has opened a new and living way which he inaugurated for us
36:52 -  through the veil that is his flesh and since we have such a great high priest
37:04 -  let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith
37:16 -  I remember that last night hearing that tape I was in bed my Bible was open to these scriptures in Hebrews
37:30 -  and he described in that last tape how he came to a Sunday morning service as a minister weary and defeated
37:46 -  of terrible monotony and predictability to which our churches can so easily come
37:58 -  but there was a woman that morning in the service who was a very bright light she could hardly contain herself
38:10 -  she was waving her arm in the air she had a testimony to give and she said
38:18 -  I just want to say that I have entered within the holiest place of all oh he was quick to correct her
38:30 -  you mean to say that you hope to enter after all she was only a housewife no she said I have entered
38:42 -  by what means he said by the blood of Jesus and the veil that was rent by his flesh
38:54 -  I simply drew near with a true heart of faith and I confessed
39:02 -  that right now in Jesus name without any acknowledgement
39:10 -  of qualification in myself I do enter into the holiest place of all
39:20 -  by the blood of Jesus and she said something happened I have entered
39:28 -  I'm in a new place and it was visibly true of her before that service ended
39:38 -  one by one people were getting up at the congregation and making a simple confession that they are entering
39:46 -  right now faith is always now isn't it on the basis of the blood of Jesus
39:56 -  into a new and living way he himself entered for which reason I was then hearing his tapes
40:10 -  of a new kind of enablement that had come to him of an enhanced and deepened quality of apostolic faith of a fresh source of creativity and originality
40:28 -  that he gets in a new place of communion with God in the holiest place of all I think it was at about that point
40:38 -  that I shut the machine I took my glasses off my long Jewish nose I thought for a moment in reflection
40:50 -  of my years in Christ the frustration, the rising and the falling and I just simply breathed a prayer flat on my back
41:02 -  I said Lord right now not on the basis of any qualification of mine I do enter
41:12 -  I'm in a new place I'm in a new place I'm in a new place
41:20 -  I'm in a new place I do enter into the holiest place of all
41:26 -  by the blood of Jesus and the veil rent by his flesh and something in my deepest
41:36 -  in a man went click and I believe I have been in that place ever since
41:46 -  and I believe I have been in that place ever since holding fast the confession of our faith
42:00 -  for every power of hell will seek to steal us from you oh this is only a play on words it's a kind of biblical rhetoric
42:10 -  there's no really actual place of entry this heavenly thing is only a vapor it's an intangible thing
42:20 -  you have all that you need by virtue of your salvation this is only a conceit on your part God doesn't intend for you to have a conjunction
42:30 -  of that which is priestly and apostolic God doesn't intend for you to have a conjunction of that which is apostolic
42:36 -  and that which is related to the role of the sacrifice you, look, you're always the same hold fast the confession of your faith
42:48 -  I'm just being obedient tonight as I have been every night and every session in these days
42:58 -  I did not come with a single concept of how these days should be fulfilled I know much better than you that the Lord Himself
43:12 -  has been unfolding these messages time by time He set before us a standard this morning
43:26 -  on apostolic character that took our breath away so beyond mere Christian respectability so beyond any kind of nice guy-ism
43:42 -  nothing less than the blamelessness of an Apostle Paul himself consciences void of offence
43:54 -  consciousness void of offence with God or with man consistent in season and out
44:12 -  knowing what manner of man I have been with you in all seasons for your sake
44:22 -  you didn't have to be spiritually acute to realize this who is sufficient for these things?
44:30 -  how can we attain this? how can we come into this apostolic fulfillment? and the eternal purpose of God through the church
44:42 -  not only in this age enormous and demanding as that is but the ages to come
44:52 -  is God cruel to set before us such a calling? and to think that we shall be able to fill it on the paucity of our own human enablement?
45:12 -  even with the benefit and blessing of the baptism of the Holy Spirit? there's yet a deeper place
45:24 -  an ultimate place it's the holiest place of all it's for those who are called to that which is apostolic
45:34 -  and high priestly consider Jesus as you have never before considered Him
45:46 -  the Son in whose image we also are called for He who is joined to Him is one Spirit with Him understand Paul better when he says
46:00 -  in Him I move and live and have my being that as He has entered, we enter for He has entered once
46:16 -  and for all where are you tonight? and where do you desire to be?
46:26 -  and where have you the faith to be? do you desire an apostolic participation in the eternal purposes of God?
46:40 -  will you be able to stand against apostolic persecution and suffering? where no thing matters to you
46:54 -  and you count not your life as dear unto yourself we have got to come into a certain priestly place without which there cannot be an apostolic fulfillment
47:12 -  and He has rent the veil and He bids us come not on the basis of our qualification
47:26 -  but on the basis of the blood of Jesus for the life of the flesh is in the blood such a life
47:38 -  such a blood sufficient for our entry there I will meet with you in the holiest place of all
47:52 -  at the mercy seat above and between the cherubim and the ark of God
48:04 -  and I will speak to you about all that I will give you to preach the unfathomable riches of Christ
48:16 -  and to bring to light what has been hidden until now that God has created all things in order that
48:28 -  through the church to the principalities and powers of the air the manifold wisdom of God might be demonstrated
48:40 -  of all that I will give you in grace, in enablement in inspiration
48:50 -  in indestructible life in commandments and in authority for the sons of Israel
49:02 -  do you believe these things? do you have a faith sufficient to enter? we have all
49:14 -  to be in a different place of faith some sufficient to believe certain doctrines some sufficient to believe for healing
49:26 -  some sufficient to believe for the baptism of the Holy Spirit by which there ought to be an evidence of such an entry by which there ought to be an evidence of such an entry
49:40 -  have you a faith to believe for an entry into the holiest place of all that there might be an apostolic fulfillment in a high priestly way
49:56 -  the only thing that can save us from becoming mere technicians the only thing that can save us from becoming mere technicians the only thing that can save us from becoming mere technicians
50:08 -  and being victims of the cruelest thing of all to take the holy apostolic language and make of it yet another mere phraseology
50:22 -  and make of it yet another mere phraseology this is the last message of the last night and God is calling us to an unusual involvement and participation
50:34 -  and God is calling us to an unusual involvement and participation I have fulfilled my obedience in the instructions that I have received
50:44 -  in speaking what I have tonight which have come to me from within the veil in that holiest place which have come to me from within the veil in that holiest place
50:54 -  because I was too exhausted, too spent because I was too exhausted, too spent to consider or to conceive out of my own mind
51:00 -  the appropriateness for tonight there's a high priestly place available for us there's a life that flows from us
51:12 -  there's a life that flows from us which is indestructible you ever live to make intercession
51:26 -  priests without interruption you know what manner of man I was with you in all seasons
51:34 -  you know what manner of man I was with you in all seasons it's now up to you
51:44 -  faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God some of you in the mentality characteristic of the French speaking some of you in the mentality characteristic of the French speaking
51:52 -  will sweep this aside some of you in the mentality characteristic of the French speaking some of you in the mentality characteristic of the French speaking
52:04 -  some American evangelistic device some fanciful play on words not to be earnestly considered
52:16 -  but there are others of you whose hearts are already burning you can hardly be contained
52:26 -  you want to stand up and to say what that woman said in that service now
52:36 -  because faith is now and the hour has struck for the time is short
52:44 -  and God is requiring a fulfillment that can only come from this place within the veil
52:54 -  have you the faith to enter with a sincere heart in full assurance of faith
53:10 -  can you hold fast a confession of hope that now I enter within the veil
53:22 -  into the holiest place of hope through a new and living way by the blood of Jesus
53:30 -  I'm just going to conclude now in prayer and there will be a time of silence and as many of you who have heard
53:42 -  a call from God an apostolic call in these days beyond any ability in yourself
53:56 -  God is now also opening the way for the source from his own life and presence to fulfill it
54:12 -  will you come? precious God Lord I have only the
54:20 -  the most minimal sense of the glory of this mystery and yet I know that it's true
54:32 -  that there's a place within the tabernacle of God that is ultimate the holiest place of all
54:42 -  for the ultimate purposes of all a place that has been opened to us a place that has been opened to us
54:56 -  by the blood of Jesus and the veil rent by his flesh I have discharged my God
55:06 -  what you have commanded me to speak to you and now I ask you to hear every soul who will respond
55:16 -  by faith in the blood of your son Jesus to enter and to abide in the place of your presence
55:30 -  and there to receive words there to receive commandments there to receive grace
55:42 -  to preach, to teach to bring to light that which is hidden to fulfill the apostolic requirement
55:54 -  of Godly character to be blameless at the day of your appearing hear those my God
56:08 -  who will respond by faith now in Jesus' name Amen