Ascending Zion

00:00 -  And I want to attempt to share it tonight. You know how there are scriptures that are familiar to us, and then there comes a moment when the Lord makes it strange,
00:14 -  when He strikes a resonance, a note of a certain kind, and brings something into focus that you had not seen before. And that's what He's done with a very familiar scripture in Romans 11,
00:26 -  and so, O Israel, shall be saved as it is written, there shall come out of Zion the deliverer, and shall turn away unGodliness from Jacob,
00:36 -  for this is my covenant unto them, when I shall take away their sins. Remarkable how much the Holy Spirit through Paul can say in one statement. The whole of Paul's statement about Israel and the Church is steeped in mystery,
00:58 -  and maybe the heart of the mystery of the mystery resides in this word. And out of this list, one fragment that caught my spirit just before I was ready to leave for the last overseas trip
01:10 -  to the former Soviet Union, Romania, Germany, and such places, there shall come out of Zion the deliverer. The Septuagint says that the deliverer shall come for Zion's sake.
01:27 -  I don't know, there was just a stirring in my spirit about this word, Zion. It's a mystery word. It's almost indefinable. I've sought through glossaries and Bible encyclopedias
01:38 -  to find the etymology of the word, Zion. Is it the Jebusite name that was given to the Hill of David? It doesn't sound pagan, and yet it's not Hebrew.
01:48 -  It's mysterious, and God loves Zion, and there's something about Zion, the Hill of Zion. I've established my king on the Hill of Zion that is so dear in God's name.
02:01 -  And I just felt that there's something implicit in that word that is more than a location, even of the future, millennial reign of Christ in the earth,
02:12 -  that he will literally be seated on the throne of David, on the Hill of Zion, and in the city of Jerusalem. That's how short this location is for God.
02:22 -  And yet I suspect or sense that there are depths of meaning in the word Zion beyond the subject of location itself, that it intimates maybe even a condition,
02:34 -  a coming of being of something of an ultimate kind, and it's that that I want to search out with you. David in Psalm 14 cries out,
02:50 -  Oh, that the salvation of Israel will come out of Zion. And I'm not in any way trying to suggest that there will not be the literal coming of the Lord
03:02 -  as Israel's deliverer, but I think that in a way that moves us to understand there are certain conditions that God has imposed that must be fulfilled before that coming and before that deliverance,
03:14 -  that has everything to do with what enheres in the word Zion. Have you ever considered how God limits himself? As for example,
03:26 -  that the creation itself groans and travails until now waiting for the manifestation of the Son of the Self. That however desperate is creation's own condition
03:38 -  and increasingly daily more desperate by the ecological disasters that sweep the earth, God waits for a condition to be fulfilled before creation's condition will be alleviated
03:50 -  that is not explicitly his own doing. He waits for something other than himself, and he's bound by that, the manifestation of the Son of God.
04:02 -  Consider Acts 321, that the Lord is bound up and contained in the heavens, waiting for the restoration of all things spoken by the prophets since the world began.
04:14 -  We talk about the humility of God, that he would impose upon himself a certain limitation, a certain restraint, that however desperate is mankind's need
04:26 -  and longing for his own appearing, and the jealousy of his own heart to come finally into his creation as king, he cannot come, he has bound himself, waiting for the fulfillment of that condition.
04:38 -  The whole of our God is a testimony of humility, of such a kind that if it ever broke upon our heart, we could not remain in our seats. That very God would restrain himself
04:50 -  impose upon himself conditions that must be met by heaven for the final consternation that has not come. That is in this verse as well. When does the deliverer come out of Zion?
05:02 -  When the fullness of the Gentiles be come in. Until that condition is met, and whatever is intended by that condition, there will be no deliverance for Israel.
05:14 -  Will you say, and so? And so the nations themselves will continue to wallow in their unbelievable violence and filth and sin and debauchery and corruption.
05:26 -  The whole program of God, the whole theocratic rule, that is sanity for mankind waits for the fulfillment of this condition. The deliverer will not come until the fullness of the Gentiles
05:38 -  be come in. I can't think of a greater incentive for the completion of the church's mission path than this one statement here. And in fact, I would
05:50 -  say for the failure to see this, our mission efforts are grossly inadequate. That somehow the seeing of this connects with what Charles shared earlier today.
06:02 -  That until this gospel of the kingdom is proclaimed in all nations, the end will not come. Here again, another limitation. When you begin to put on this prophetic apostolic
06:14 -  view of the faith, you become aware of a remarkable mystery of the self-limitation of God. Talk about faith. My God, the faith that
06:26 -  to which God looks in us is puny next to his own faith in a complete trust and confidence that these conditions will be fulfilled by others, namely our self.
06:38 -  That this fullness that comes in, I believe, is something more than the numerical quantity, though it is that. There's a people for his name from among all nations
06:50 -  that must be obtained from all nations, though all hell rail against such an effort. But there's a fullness in another sense, and that's what I want to hopefully explore with you tonight,
07:02 -  of what it means of coming out of Zion for Zion's sake. Notice in that great verse that I'm quoting, the deliverer shall turn away unGodliness
07:14 -  from Jacob. That it's not Jacob that turns away from sin, it's unGodliness that is turned away from Jacob. Jacob doesn't have a cotton-picking thing to do with it. Jacob is going
07:26 -  to be so destitute, so inept, so incapable of contributing in any way to Israel's own deliverance that the entire thing must come exclusively by the power of God. It is
07:38 -  Godliness that is turned away from Jacob, and not Jacob from Godliness. How do you like them apples? And what's the condition? The fullness of the Gentiles be come in, and therefore
07:50 -  the deliverer shall come out of Zion. If this deliverance out of Zion is not only the issue of the Lord coming in his own person, but something released by the
08:02 -  coming of a certain fullness and stature in the church itself, that is somehow caught up in the word Zion, then it must have
08:14 -  something to do with righteousness. If unGodliness shall be taken from Jacob, then those that constitute the Zion must themselves be free from all unGodliness.
08:26 -  That's part of the condition. That's part of the fullness. That's the stature. That's the ultimate thing for which God waits and has bound himself in that waiting. Oh, David said that the salvation
08:38 -  will come out of Zion. And it comes not because of the direct intervention of God, but another. Namely, I believe the church upon whom
08:50 -  he waits. It's the corporate people of God brought to a full final prophetic and apostolic maturity sharing the character of God. And I want to make
09:02 -  it clear. It's not what they do necessarily having attained that condition. It's attaining the condition itself. This is the mystery. We're so
09:14 -  utilitarian-minded that we wait for the practical consequence of something, that having attained a certain condition, then we can perform something that frees creation from its bondage or delivers Israel
09:26 -  from her historic transgressions. No. It's the merely coming of age that in itself performs it. The very manifestation of the sons of God delivers creation from its bondage.
09:38 -  It's not that they embark on an ecological program. There's no program at all. It's simply the coming to a final ultimate condition of being that inheres
09:50 -  in the word Zion. One way to perhaps glimpse this is to turn to another text in Psalms, Psalm 24,
10:02 -  and I'm enormously indebted for insight into this with the precious work of the Swiss-German theologian, Kalbot, as I'm indebted to him for many things, and I'm always
10:14 -  jealous to acquaint the Church with the wonderful inheritance it has in such giants as this man. I read a sermon of his based on Psalm 24 that
10:30 -  begins, The earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof, the world, and they that dwell therein. For he hath founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the floods. And then all of a sudden the whole tenor of the Psalm
10:42 -  shifts, and a question is abruptly inserted. Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? For who shall stand in his holy place?
10:54 -  The answer, he that hath clean hands and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully, he shall receive the blessing from the Lord, and righteousness
11:06 -  from the God of his salvation. This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face, O God of Jacob. Selah, think on that. And then again,
11:18 -  this poetic Psalm shifts, and another theme is struck and introduced. Lift up your heads, O ye gates, and be lift up ye everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in.
11:30 -  Who is this King of glory? The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord, mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O ye gates, even lift them up ye everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in.
11:42 -  Who is this King of glory? The Lord of hosts, he is the King of glory. And in this precious sermon, Bott describes the scene
11:54 -  of the King waiting, again, contained, restrained, dependent upon the fulfillment of a certain condition, or he cannot come in through that gate. That he comes in as the Lord
12:06 -  of hosts, that he comes in in his majesty and his power, is a beautiful picture of a eschatological final closure event, the Lord coming in his glory to establish
12:18 -  his kingdom and his rule. And yet the gate is closed, and Bott says, a bolt is fixed in its place. If that's so, it's a moot question to ask, who put it there?
12:32 -  You might say the devil, but I would say the Lord himself, containing himself, and putting the entire premium on someone who can
12:44 -  ascend the holy hill of Zion, and throw open that bolt, who releases and opens the gate that the King of glory might come in. But there are conditions, clean hands,
12:56 -  a pure heart, and a soul that has not been lifted up to deceit or to vanity. Who in this room tonight, if the final conclusive event of the age,
13:08 -  the consummation waited, for one who could ascend that hill in that condition, could say now that they're ready, that their hands are not sullied by being given to any misuse,
13:20 -  we've never twiddled TV dials, we've never well, you compose your own list. I can hardly conceive of a sin in which the hands do not find some place.
13:32 -  And a pure heart, and a soul not lifted up to deceit or to vanity. This sounds like the very description of sons of God.
13:44 -  And in fact, it's not a single individual as we have been reminded already this morning, that is to ascend that hill, but a corporate son.
13:56 -  The manifest son, the same one who delivers creation from bondage and the same one who triggers Israel's release from ages long captivity in the consequence of their own sin and apostasy.
14:08 -  Who shall ascend? Who shall stand? The who is almost like a plaintiff appeal, like where can you find such a one? This is not a common place,
14:20 -  you're not going to run an ad in the paper, this is something rare, like is there even one that can be found, that can attain to a condition of that kind? Bart says,
14:32 -  clean guiltless hands open the bolt that closes the entrance to the redeeming and freeing things, the salvation for all who are in Israel, and the turning away of unGodliness from Jacob.
14:44 -  It's to be expected that the Church of the last days, is this not to be expected from the Church, these are my own statements, of the last days that can provoke them to jealousy? It's this kind
14:56 -  of Zion, it's this kind of son that will also fulfill that requirement of a Church that can turn Israel to jealousy, for that reason, because to have
15:08 -  clean hands, a pure heart, and their soul has not been lifted up to deceit or to vanity. And when you read the precious dealings of God with Israel in that final time, the
15:20 -  wooing of her in the wilderness in Ezekiel 20, or the pleading with Israel face to face, there's something that implies that this is not God directly
15:32 -  encountering his people in his own person, but somehow caught up and expressed in some expression of himself that is ultimate, that for world Jewry in its final
15:44 -  utter condition that will be so beggarly and so undone that Jesus calls them the least of these my brethren, that the thing that turns them to
15:56 -  salvation that they might return as the redeemed of the Lord, so when they are uprooted, they are uprooted in their apostasy and alienation from God, is meeting him face to face in the wilderness
16:08 -  of the nations. This place, by the way, is intended as such a location. I literally believe that the day will come when Jews of the description that I'm giving, utterly
16:20 -  unkempt, utterly shot, utterly dismayed, not knowing what has hit them for the fury that shall so suddenly come upon them will stagger on to this property and the neighbors round about who have been accustomed to convocations
16:32 -  and schools and saints coming in and out will not note the changed character of those who will come in that hour. That we will be directed how to lead them into the next place of refuge being established
16:44 -  and from place to place until the surviving remnants of this people will finally return to Zion as the redeemed of the Lord and mourning and sighing shall flee away.
16:56 -  If you want tapes that develop this view more fully they'll be on the back table from our prophetic school. I'm holding a rare view of God's dealings with Israel
17:08 -  through the nations as being the profound basic dealing with Israel and the key rests on a final face-to-face encounter
17:20 -  in which glimpsing him may come under the bond of his covenant and under the rod of his authority. This face-to-face encounter is critical and I believe it will be by Gentile faces
17:32 -  by faces that would ordinarily have turned Jews away by faces that have struck in historic times fear, suspicion, resentment, irritation and all of the kinds of things that have marred the relations between
17:44 -  Gentiles and Jews between the church and the synagogue. Some other quality has got to be exhibited in the face that greets them in their moment of final extremity and it's not something that we'll be able to find
17:56 -  in that moment. It's not going to be by sucking air and gritting our teeth and pursing our lips that we'll somehow be able to extend some modest graciousness to them, but
18:08 -  such a quality of the life of God that cannot be troubled, that cannot be vexed, that cannot be responsive to the irritating complaint or ingratitude or whatever else they will express
18:20 -  in the condition in which they will find themselves. That face needs to be prepared and mere religious obligations will not suffice. It's an ultimate statement of God
18:32 -  in the great mystery of Israel and the church and I believe that it's incorporated in all that I'm saying tonight that when the fullness of the Gentiles become in, as being
18:44 -  something more than a numerical completion, but something of a coming to an ultimate quality of being, of character and of kind deliverance comes because of that very
18:56 -  thing. So, if this is our mandate and exclusively ours, one by which the Lord Himself
19:08 -  is restricted and cannot be fulfilled on any grounds other than our total sanctification, would we welcome the most stringent feelings of God in preparation thereof?
19:20 -  This is not going to come about magically and in fact it will not come about at all, so long as we remain in the traditional church modes that are convenient for us.
19:32 -  This depth of sanctification, this searching out of the things that keep us from clean hands and a pure heart and consciences undefiled before God and before men can only
19:44 -  be the sanctifying work of God and the intensive dealing available in the body of Christ. In a church situation that's more than the Sunday morning service and the midweek Bible study and the going again
19:56 -  from house to house breaking bread daily and the opening ourselves to correction, reproof, exhortation or rebuke if that's what's needed that can only come to us from other things. It's everything that we
20:08 -  have dreaded, everything that we have feared, the loss of privacy the humiliation of being found out and yet the faith of God is this, that we will so voluntarily and freely
20:20 -  give ourselves to such an exacting and painful and requiring and working that there will be a people who can ascend the holy hill of Zion and throw open the bolt that
20:32 -  releases the gate for the king of glory to come in. It may well be that all of the talk and the encouragement about the baptism of the holy spirit and revival and the falling again
20:44 -  of the spirit of God is not so much the last days communion, precious though that is but the very enablement to bear the suffering of that sanctifying
20:56 -  look for there's no suffering like the suffering that is available in the church and it's only through that suffering that face of God, the character of God
21:08 -  can be fashioned. So will we welcome the intensive conditions of true church life whereby they may be obtained, the necessary judgment of God of hidden things
21:20 -  as being the very grace of God that we would welcome being found out. We would welcome the subtlety of our souls being identified and indeed if such revealing
21:32 -  comes it must necessarily come from another. It must come from one outside of ourselves because we are all of us given to that proverbial blind spot by which we cannot see our own effect. I'm not talking now about
21:44 -  course, race and sin. My God, we have long ago graduated from that. I'm talking about the issues of subtlety of souls. Those delicate things that
21:56 -  require radically sharp surgeon's scalpel to separate out from the things by which we confuse soul with spirit. I have to say last night I was
22:08 -  holding my breath and praying in my spirit lest any of us in the precious invitation come into something that we have so long sought that we would come
22:20 -  in a way by which, how shall I say it, our soul would become confused with our spirit and that there would be some response from us and readiness from us that is
22:32 -  not deep calling into deep but a superficial soulless response for the want of the greed of the delight and the excitement and the titillation of a spirit meeting with God. The Lord keep us,
22:44 -  keep us for the holy, pure, true thing. For if we do violence to this and call this the Holy Spirit and the ultimate and final last days of preparation of your
22:56 -  saints, where then shall we turn? It's the final deception and the jealous over that of the great words apostolic and prophetic. For if we produce the meaning of these words and employ them as a common place
23:08 -  as another fad, gimmick and novelty, what is left then for us to toy with and do and to disfigure in the charismatic manner? Holy, holy, holy, rather to
23:20 -  wait, rather for the Lord to yank us out of his seat by his power than we should lurch forward in an eagerness and anticipation by which is more the response of soul than
23:32 -  the spirit meeting spirit. And so also with this, the hidden things are just in the very things that we are about in these days.
23:44 -  And there's such a jealousy brooding over us as several have noted, I think especially for that reason. Who will ascend to the
23:56 -  hill of the Lord? The generation of them that seek after him that seeks our faith. And anyone here who has ever tried it knows that there's no activity
24:08 -  more painful, more laborious, more exacting, more demanding than to seek after God. To seek after his face is yet a
24:20 -  finer, more demanding requisite. And everything in the flesh and hell and the world conspires against it.
24:32 -  Your phone will go off unreasonably. Your kids will cry. Your wife will complain. The pops will boil over on the stove. The fuse blows. This goes that.
24:44 -  There's a multitude of distractions and legitimate ones. The moment that we set ourselves to seek the Lord and to seek thy face O God of Jacob. I don't know what this means, saints. I'm
24:56 -  intuiting. I'm groaning. I'm inspired by a series of messages given by T. Austin Sparks, the only one I have ever read who has sought to seize
25:08 -  and apprehend the mystery of this word Zion as it speaks an ultimate condition of God's people. And you can sense the groaning in every
25:20 -  statement that goes out of him. Trying to apprehend, to intuit what this means in its ultimacy. The generation
25:32 -  does not refer, I believe, to some chronological period of time from this age to that age, but a kind of people, a peculiar kind, at any time
25:44 -  who will be disposed and dispose themselves to the painful excruciating work of seeking the face of God. I think someone has wisely rightly said we stop praying
25:56 -  at the very point where we should have continued. There's something in us that is very short fused. We have not the stamina. We cannot endure in prayer.
26:08 -  We want to be alleviated. We're living in a sensate world that is predicated upon immediate, now gratification that if we have to suffer any deferred gratification, which has to do with
26:20 -  seeking, we are not capable of that labor. The fact of the matter is I don't think that any one of us will ever succeed in it, independent of the encouragement, the prayer, the boost, the commiseration,
26:32 -  the sympathy of other like-minded saints. We will not be able to do this in some solo desert mystic kind of way. We need each other,
26:44 -  but we need each other in a certain frame of mind of a people intent to ascend this holy hill. I don't know what's happening to me, but it's all in the same period of time. I am falling in love with righteousness.
26:56 -  Don't ask me to define it, but the word, there it goes, my saliva runs. Righteousness. The righteousness of God, whatever that is, and this much I know,
27:08 -  it far exceeds anything that men think it is, or that men would require by that definition. It's an ultimate righteousness in the small things that we would
27:20 -  ordinarily pass by as being inconsequential, and there in such matters as that, the great issue of being found brainless in the day of the Lord's appearing, may well be
27:32 -  affected. I'm groaning for something. I'm materialing to you to groan with me, and that the Lord will strike a note and put something in our hearts to register a mystery
27:44 -  upon us that requires a fulfillment that can only come through us and must come crucially. In an ultimate condition, Zion, whenever
27:56 -  Zion is obtained, and it's going to require a righteousness beyond what we ever would have thought needful. An attention to things that we would have likely
28:08 -  have passed over that would not have any apparent consequence and therefore we think that we could treat such a thing likely. Not only our speaking, but the tone of our speaking.
28:20 -  The kinds of things that we have allowed ourselves in indulgence. Somehow chastening and affecting our conscience. It's going to take a people so much like David that merely to
28:32 -  cut the robe, the corner of Saul's robe, merely to put out a stitch, merely to begin to unravel such a robe would bring a sense of strickenness, of somehow
28:44 -  having offended against the God who anoints. A sense. We're too casual in our speech and in our demeanor, in our manner, and we don't suffer any consequence
28:56 -  of it and therefore we go on and become yet more brazen. I just spoke with a woman on the phone who divorced her husband. Both spirit filled because he was Calvinist in his view
29:08 -  and was strong on the issue of the holiness of God and she thought he had become weird. Her taste ran more to Francis Renziopani and our cat. You know, it's he who has my
29:20 -  sense of faith. Can you imagine divorcing a husband on such grounds with four children at stake? She said to me on the phone, I said, you know
29:32 -  God says that he hates divorce. Oh, she said, I know. And when I did it and came out of the attorney's office, I felt sure that lightning would fall, but it didn't. If we're going to be
29:44 -  that kind of saint whose conduct is calibrated to the probability of disaster and consequence of our acts, we will never ascend this holy hill of Zion. Fullness will not come. Deliverance
29:56 -  will not come. Israel will remain bound in her transgression. God should not take transgression from Jemka. It waits on something that must come out from Zion
30:08 -  or the people who have come to Zion. The generation of them that seek after him, that seek thy face. When the Lord shall build up Zion, he shall appear in his glory.
30:28 -  Psalm 102, verse 16. Is it rich that the word of God can have such multiple meanings that I'm sure it means
30:46 -  when he has completed that work, there will be the direct literal physical appearing of the crucified, resurrected, and ascended Lord coming to occupy the throne of glory
30:58 -  in the same city that humiliated him and brought his crucifixion. But I believe it means also that this Zion will glorify him. He shall appear in such a
31:10 -  place where that glorification is nothing less nor other than what he is in himself as he in fact is. How many of us are confident that we know God as we ought?
31:22 -  And to what degree can we surmise even in all of our concern for revival and even in the experience of powerful demonstrations of the Spirit does not automatically
31:34 -  confer the knowledge of God as he in fact is. It's a helpful provision but not an ultimate one. How many of us are enjoying a
31:48 -  view of Jesus which is very much not more than a projection of something that is comfortable in our own consideration to which we have given that name.
32:00 -  We do not know as we ought to know and we cannot make him known as he ought to be known until that knowledge is obtained. When the Lord shall build up Zion he shall appear in his glory.
32:12 -  Zion is the fullness of the Father. Zion is the fullness of God. Zion is the fullness. Zion is beyond definition. Its meaning needs to be intuitive and to be apprehended.
32:24 -  It's the consummation of everything. It's the end. It's ascending the hill. It's the symbol of the absolute victory of the triumphant king. The taking of Zion
32:36 -  even in the history of David suggests that. It's a symbol. It's a synonym of kingship, of anointing, of supreme victory over the things that were formerly
32:48 -  impregnable, the great Jebusite fortress. It's the final conquest of everything that is resistant to God and antithetical to God that even yet remains in
33:00 -  the church. The last, Lord give me a word. It's got to be a fancy one. Three or four syllables. The last integument, the last
33:12 -  linkage, the last residue of the subtlety of things that keep the radiance of God from breaking through.
33:24 -  And when that radiance comes we invite the severest opposition. We enter the controversy of Zion. We make ourselves candidates for opposition and
33:36 -  for persecution. For if the powers of darkness hate anything, it's the radiance of Zion as it finally breaks forth from the faces of God's people. You can't
33:48 -  affect this by, what shall I say, by some determination of things external. It's something that will happen when the truth of the
34:00 -  condition, which is nothing less than God's own character and nature, is obtained in the belief of himself. And the one through whom that radiance issues will probably be the least conscious
34:12 -  of the fact that somehow that's the truth of his face. Imagine a whole people in that condition. Surely if our hands are sullied, if we have
34:24 -  given them to any kind of manipulation, or our souls have been deceitful. And where is the greater opportunity for that? Than in marriage? Than in church life itself? Than in the conduct of ministers
34:36 -  and even in their service? In all the calls and the ways in which we give them? In the use of music and worship to obtain certain effect and certain ends? There is the subtlety of elements
34:48 -  of manipulation and the failure to trust and the concern for reputation or effect that nullifies the condition of Zion, even in God's
35:00 -  ministers. It requires a purity of heart that is free from any consideration for itself. We will not employ anything to obtain effect or consequence.
35:12 -  It is absolutely mindless of its own reputation and indeed will shun any attempt by men to establish reputation or to confer honor or rewards or degrees or
35:24 -  anything of that kind. It's a soul that has to keep itself with such diligence. Knowing the remarkable snares and subtleties that are everywhere about us, even in the realm
35:36 -  of the church itself. A final struggle for a quality of being that Paul calls blameless in the day of his appearance. And indeed I don't think that we will be
35:48 -  willing to strive to attain that in the pain staking things that it will require. Unless indeed we believe that being found in that condition
36:00 -  obtains for us a particular reward of an eternal nature and kind. Not to be extended to others who simply die in the faith and
36:12 -  come before the Lord in that day yet imperfect having shunned the very provision of God to have obtained blamelessness and content to be
36:24 -  a lackluster saint on a get by basis to find perhaps that they don't even rise at all in the Lord's appearing but have to wait for a more humiliating general resurrection of the dead
36:36 -  that comes a thousand years later if perchance their name should yet be found written in the Lamb's Book of Life. Oh there's so much that I could say and that's why I don't like preaching.
36:48 -  I prefer the prophetical school. I prefer two and a half weeks. I prefer two and a half hours over a table with students with their Bibles open and probing and coming into this and showing and examining the eschatological
37:00 -  aspects of the faith, the belief of what lies beyond in the life to come as being the premium thing for which this life is essentially preparation. It requires a whole radical alteration of
37:12 -  the mindset that sees preeminently the things that are invisible and eternal as providing the motivation to suffer the sanctifying work that will alone achieve
37:24 -  a people who can be called the sons and daughters of Zion and attend the holy hill of death is the stronghold, the final
37:36 -  Jebusite thing so to speak that such a people need to take becomes the seat of the divine government the locus of the kingdom where heaven is
37:48 -  governing where the heavenly councils are operating where heaven rules it requires the absolute rulership of God the absolute lordship and if there's ever
38:00 -  a word what shall I say that that has every capability of rubbing mankind raw
38:12 -  it's the word absolute. It is absolutely in contra distinction to the spirit of this relativistic age that God has an absolute core that there's a possibility
38:24 -  for an absoluteness of his lordship in which we have seeded over the last rite of veto of any small thing that though we're willing to give him sovereignty
38:36 -  over the major issues of our life we have reserved for ourselves the privilege of determining the things that which he probably doesn't have great interest Lord over all
38:48 -  the absoluteness of the lordship of Christ that I don't think many saints have ever recognized or sought or are willing even now to obtain
39:00 -  no small thing that is not submitted for his approval it requires such a meticulous kind of attention
39:12 -  and willingness that that itself is a suffering that itself is a kind of tension that most believers would not want to experience
39:24 -  but the issue of Zion is the issue of government and the government must be upon his shoulder and of the increase of that government and of that peace there shall be no end. Those scriptures in Isaiah 9
39:36 -  7 indicate that this is not some fixed instant thing that comes with the inception of his being the Christ and the anointed king but an increase
39:48 -  of the government and of his peace even now by those who are willing and as I said that very disposition of heart
40:00 -  will mark you. If the powers of darkness yawn in your face now and say Jesus we know and Paul we know but who are you I'll tell you from the moment that they recognize that
40:12 -  something of a qualitative kind has been established. A determination in the heart of a believer to obtain that holy hill and to be part of that corporate company that has clean hands and who can ascend it
40:24 -  and can open the bolt that allows the king of glory to come in. You will find yourself experiencing a quality and kind of opposition that will be new in your experience. It's the controversy
40:36 -  of Zion. A battle, a spiritual battle a tension. The battle starts wherever the powers of darkness see such a one
40:48 -  see a church with that determination and it arises at once in some way to prevent the force out or to limit this kind of ultimate yielding over to the lordship of Christ in everything
41:00 -  to the last detail, the measure of Christ, the governing thing that crowns him lord of all. And we're challenged and it's a tension
41:12 -  it's an unbearable tension and much has to do with the ability to bear it. If we're soft and sappy and products of the instant generation
41:24 -  we'll give up such a struggle quickly. We will be tested and the very testing is the refining. This fierce and furious malice that is meant for our undoing is the very
41:36 -  thing that God will employ and the shaping of his own character in the life of such a people that Zion might be the place of consummation, of absolute
41:48 -  sovereignty and lordship of God's anointed. And we are come to Zion Remember how the heathen raged in Psalm 2 and imagined the vain thing and wanted to break asunder
42:02 -  the lord and his anointed but it says that God holds them in derision for he has set his king on the holy hill
42:14 -  of Zion. Talk about foolish places and locations and things that mankind would love to dismiss as insignificant or suggest a whole
42:26 -  variety of other alternatives far more impressive than that hill God is insistent on that hill and that hill only His kingship will have only to do with that location
42:38 -  and with that people. Only there will the throne of David be established and only from that place will the law go forth out of Zion and the word of the lord out of Jerusalem
42:56 -  And that's why deliverance comes out of Zion. For Israel and for an unregenerate world that law will teach them to study war no more
43:08 -  turn their swords into pruning hooks and their spears into swords into plows. It's not just a suggestion it's the directive of the most high God seated in the place of his
43:20 -  absolute authority and now commanding all men everywhere because Zion has been obtained as the locus of that great government. I have to plead with my students
43:32 -  in a political school to reconsider the word government itself because it has become so tainted. It immediately involves the sense of bureaucracy, paper shuffling, self-aggrandizement
43:44 -  men stuffing their pockets with game men with ambitions for fame and the whole Clinton-esque vulgarity of governments, lesbians and hypes
43:56 -  I can establish it with them in the meekness of the land himself This life is the preparation for that rulership
44:08 -  by only those who have an intention of ascending that mount and not for the casual who want only to get by The Lord is bound, he's waiting
44:20 -  for those who will bear the intense spiritual pressure that sometimes gets unbearable and intolerable where you're confident that you're going to break
44:32 -  The Lord knows them that are his and he knows those that are the greatest interest to the devil. They are marked, they are involved in the controversy of Zion. A people who stand for the
44:44 -  absolute Lordship of Jesus Christ as the true vocation of the Church. A people who are not going to have an easy time. Sons chasing for eternal responsibility
44:56 -  governmental positions in the Kingdom in the ages to come So I don't even know how long I've been at it. I'll try to conclude
45:10 -  It's remarkable how the conclusion of the age brings two mysteries to completion. The mystery of iniquity and the mystery of God. Of saints being
45:22 -  perfected at the very same time when every hellish influence is brought to its greatest fulsomeness. And in that great swirl of final conflict between the absoluteness
45:34 -  of the character of God as a final testimony to be seen in this Church that the glory that is revealed and the darkness and suffocating things that is drawing mankind down into the cesspool
45:46 -  deception, defilement and every kind of murky thing is working misleading things. Things that assume a divine complexion
45:58 -  or appearances. Things that are false or only partially true that are in fact a lie. Because as my book reminds us the truth is the whole truth and nothing but the truth or it is a lie
46:10 -  It's an absolute, truth is an absolute condition. And if there's any kind of conditionality anything that is not in keeping with the character of
46:22 -  what is spoken, it's no longer truth. And it's this kind of attentiveness to that issue that is the issue of Zion.
46:34 -  And this is the prophetic burden Isaiah says in 62nd chapter, for Zion's sake I will not hold my peace
46:46 -  and for Jerusalem's sake I will not rest until the righteousness thereof, go forth as brightness and the salvation thereof as a light that burns. We're talking about
46:58 -  the Holy Spirit and the revival spirit and the fullness of the spirit but that fullness came to Jesus as a consequence of hating inequity and of loving
47:10 -  righteousness and therefore he received the oil of gladness above his brothers. The reward of that oil was not a kind of charismatic abandon
47:22 -  but a response to one who loved righteousness and hated inequity. And I believe it will be the same thing for the sons of Zion. I don't know how to figure this in with all that's
47:34 -  being said about the sovereign working of God and the spirit of God hitting people and devastating and lifting and moving. I'm sure that's true and needs to be true maybe in its initial activity
47:46 -  but I don't think that that in and of itself is going to produce the sons of Zion who will ascend the holy hill. The more enduring oil of gladness above one's
47:58 -  brethren is altogether proportionate to hating inequity and loving righteousness. I'm the kind of fool who has to tell men to take their hats off inside a building. Where does it
48:10 -  say that in scripture? Well I think it says something about a man's head and his glory and he should keep his head uncovered and even the cultural
48:22 -  thing that has come to us through the generations and which was commonplace in my youth and boyhood was you take your hat off and you come into a house. How much more in the house of God?
48:34 -  Well how many are requiring that? Lest they be considered legalistic. I'm the kind of fool who is willing to suffer that
48:46 -  risk because I somehow feel that we allow that standard to slide. It's of no consequence. The lightning of God did not fall. The meeting goes on as well
48:58 -  as perhaps as it would have gone on if every head was uncovered by the men in the room and so what matter? And what will the next thing be? And the next thing, each slight, each consequential, each really not
49:10 -  a matter to occupy oneself lest you injure or bruise the spirit of the meeting by your legalistic requirement. I know that there are greater issues of righteousness than the issue of wearing a hat.
49:22 -  But I feel that there's an erosion. I feel that there are powerful forces working in such areas of subtlety that seem to be inconsequential to which even now the church itself gives
49:34 -  itself without batting an eyelash. And when the smoke clears we will find ourselves incapacitated to ascend that mount. We need
49:46 -  to fight the good fight and cherish the faith and strive for the faith once and for all given earnestly to the saints. It's in small things that I think we're going to be contradicted and
49:58 -  undone. And where we need most to be attentive and to be most submitted to those who will be attentive to us if we're not in a position to be attentive for ourselves is the very kind of thing that chases us, the very kind
50:10 -  of thing that we want to shock off, and the very kind of thing alone that will guarantee the actual and authentic love of righteousness and hatred of iniquity and the ability to discern it.
50:26 -  So we don't like this kind of language. Even the idea of a Zion people or a Zion company or a select band of last day saints, a remnant
50:38 -  who have that radiant quality, who ascend to that mount. And somehow when that fullness is obtained, God is released in the conditions to free nature creation from bondage in Israel
50:50 -  from its apostasy. Something selective, different, separate, something other, something particular and not general is contrary to the spirit of this age. But God is specific.
51:02 -  God is particular. And he has appointed one place, Zion for the locus of his everlasting rule. And if he's that insistent about that place
51:14 -  what then must Zion imply? Not only as a location but a condition. And those who rule with him from that place must share the character implied in that place, whatever that mystery
51:26 -  word means. So I'm at the beginning of something and I invite you to join me as the generation of them that seek thy face, O God of Jacob.
51:38 -  It's going to take a seeking to recover what has been lost. And I believe that is the concern for that recovery that's part of the prophetic burden
51:50 -  to bring Zion back to the consciousness of the church as something more than just an airy designation or a word that has faint or unknowable
52:02 -  connotations but something very real, something very precious in God's sight. For when Zion is obtained, his glory is revealed. It's everything from the divine view, from
52:14 -  the eternal view, from the heavenly view and God is jealous over it. And it requires those who are utterly committed to obtain it. I love the phrase from Watchmanee, of the utterness of spirit
52:26 -  God would. That is required by those who do battle with the powers of darkness at the end of the age. He said it's one thing to evangelize, it's one thing to serve in various
52:38 -  things and meet the various issues of faith in the last days. But the contest with the powers of darkness in this last conflict can only be met by those who have an
52:50 -  utterness of spirit God would. You tell me what that means. I can't define it but my spirit knows it and it's
53:02 -  utter, it's ultimate. The word utterness almost fails in registering the meaning and is far more than anything we would ever have appointed for ourselves. We would have been satisfied
53:14 -  with much less and have been approved and blessed in that by brothers and sisters who equally have not the intention of ascending that hill. This is a special time, an anniversary
53:26 -  time, a holy time. God is after something very special. He will perform it. It's nothing that we can obtain. It is His righteousness but only
53:38 -  given to those who love righteousness and hate inequity. That it might be bestowed upon them as an oil of gladness in the obtaining of the reality of what
53:50 -  pain implies. He provides it but he looks for those who love it. Love truth and if you love truth it will make a fool out of you. It will bring you into embarrassing, contradictory
54:02 -  situations. You're much better if you just respect truth. But to love it is to be totally insistent upon it in everything. And that's
54:14 -  when it gets sticky. That's when it gets painful. That's when it becomes a remarkable requirement and so also righteousness. How can they be separated?
54:26 -  So I just want to pray for the formation of such and utterly committed, unreservedly committed people to the absoluteness of the
54:38 -  Lordship of Christ. A people who want to ascend the holy hill of Zion. A people who are willing to divest themselves to whatever they could give their hands
54:50 -  that would not in any way be censored or obtain the rebuke not only of the world but even in the church. There are many things that are sanctioned that are not in themselves explicitly
55:02 -  or blatantly evil. And yet a tinge of a question, a hue, a kind of faint compromise
55:14 -  that renders us unqualified. To throw the bolt at the king of glory. God bless him. The king of glory who has every right, every power
55:26 -  to come in as the Lord of hosts and to manifest his kingdom and his glory. Right at the gate, the ancient gate. My God, how long has he been waiting? For that to be opened
55:38 -  not by himself but by those who can ascend with a pure heart and clean hands who have not given their souls over to deceit or to vanity.
55:50 -  So Lord give us a mandate, give us a charge tonight. I think we've come of age that everything till now is readiness, preparation
56:06 -  for such a call. We're old enough, we're mature enough to understand now the ultimacy of it. We have a history with you by which we can recognize looking back
56:18 -  where we have cut the corners and taken the liberties and been casual to understand what you're after in this final kind of thing that releases your coming, releases
56:30 -  very creation itself, releases Israel who is nothing less than life from the dead for the nations of this world in their apostolate
56:42 -  and in their priestly ministry to the nations waiting for this one thing that can come only by the church but the church of an ultimate kind.
56:54 -  So I'm going to invite my brother Jim Mathis to sing for us a chorus of something he's composed on this very word Zion and while you're hearing
57:06 -  it, contemplate the call and maybe the final thing will be an actual invitation to receive it.
57:18 -  A number of months ago, a number of months ago I was in this passage of scripture, I was struck by these words Isaiah, Isaiah 35 verses 8 and 10
57:30 -  and a highway will be there, a roadway and it will be called the highway of holiness. The unclean will not travel on it but it will be for him who walks that way and fools will not wander on it
57:42 -  and the redeemed of the Lord will return and come with joyful shouting to Zion with everlasting joy upon their heads they will find gladness and joy and sorrow and sighing will flee away.
57:54 -  It is time to hear the Lord to come and pray
58:14 -  and bear his word It is time to rend our hearts
58:26 -  before our God the Holy One He will hear
58:38 -  the contrite heart of those who sin before the Lord
58:50 -  and He will bring forgiving power for those who wait
59:04 -  on Him alone and I'll meet you on the highway as I know
59:16 -  I'll meet you when the battle is finally won Yes, I'll meet you on the highway as I know my people
59:30 -  Yes, I'll meet you with the coming of my son It is time
59:44 -  for grace to conquer hardened hearts and rebellious pain
59:56 -  for the land of Calvary's mountain has carried all
01:00:08 -  our guilt and shame and He will be an endless river
01:00:20 -  to every soul that He's redeemed that all might give
01:00:32 -  Him praise and glory to our God the Lord Supreme
01:00:44 -  and He will be an endless river to every soul
01:00:56 -  that He's redeemed that all might give Him praise and glory
01:01:08 -  to our God the Lord Supreme and I'll meet you on the highway
01:01:20 -  as I know I'll meet you when the battle is finally won Yes, I'll meet you on the highway
01:01:32 -  as I know my people with the coming of my son Yes, I'll meet you on the highway
01:01:44 -  as I know I'll meet you when the battle is finally won Yes, I'll meet you on the highway
01:01:56 -  as I know my people Yes, I'll meet you with the coming of my son
01:02:34 -  righteous call to yet the final perfecting of that righteousness that last conclusive thing that is the most painful to obtain
01:02:46 -  and yet will not be ours except we seek to ascend to obtain it so I don't know how to give an invitation for that but I know that God waits for the voluntary response
01:02:58 -  and once having made it you know that you mock yourself and you have entered into the controversy of Zion and will know its tension, its struggle, and its conflict
01:03:10 -  but the end thereof is glory Let's just conclude our service tonight quietly and give individuals in the congregation
01:03:22 -  the feel that this word has been a call to their hearts to say yes to the Lord. Pray your own prayer out of your seat as you will, but I know that I know that I know
01:03:34 -  it will be a very real transaction and will bring us to the consummation of the end of the age for Israel will not be delighted