Be Ye Perfect

00:00 -  This is tape number K001. Art Ketz with the message entitled, Be Ye Perfect. Isn't that strange that as the world becomes more slapdash and haphazard and approximate, God does just the opposite.
00:21 -  In the get-by world, where any kind of combination works, the more bizarre and grotesque, the more likely it is to be successful, there's a God who insists more singularly upon purity and perfection.
00:37 -  Have you noticed that? He's the God of the perfect. Be thou perfect and walk thou before me. As Inger says, what do you think of them apples?
00:48 -  You think he's a wolfen or does he really mean it? Is it a vague standard toward which we should aspire? Or does God actually intend that we obtain perfection?
01:00 -  The doctor said about my kneecap, the only way that damage could have been done is if you perfectly came down, smack dab, a three-point landing right on the heart of your kneecap. He said every accident, you squirm, you fall, you twist your body some angle,
01:14 -  but you came down in perfect precision. Only way to go. Can you believe that I'm almost getting so bold in these days that I can begin
01:29 -  a service like this or a message like this and have the effrontery or is it Jewish chutzpah to suggest that you're going to hear something perfect?
01:41 -  And then people come up to you at the end of the message and say, but aren't you choked and spluttered a few times and you mispronounced one word and you were ungrammatical in one particular place. How was it perfect?
01:51 -  The perfection of God's children doesn't have to do with impeccable grammar. It has only to do with this, that it has its perfect origin in heaven and is perfectly the fulfillment of him who spoke it.
02:07 -  And the great wonder is that he can do things like that through a Brooklyn accent or a high squeaky voice of the kind that our brother Ernie has. What a marvel. Praise the Lord.
02:24 -  So I'll tell you what children, I just feel like going for broke tonight, don't you? In this lapdash age in which anything goes, doesn't your heart covet the thing that is perfect?
02:37 -  Let's just ask that God will speak perfectly. Whatever it is in his heart, it will be the perfect expression of what he intends to go forth to his children this night by his spirit.
02:53 -  So precious holy God, Lord, if there's anything in which we delight, it's to boast upon you. You do all things well, mighty God. And it's just a wonder to stand still and to see your salvation.
03:11 -  And so I ask, precious God, that if what you have spoken in the sixth chapter of Romans is true, what you have described in the second and third chapters of Colossians is true, that we are complete in you who is the head of all principality and power,
03:26 -  in whom is hid all fullness and knowledge, I ask that you make your wonder manifest out of this earthen vessel this night. Right through this Brooklyn accent and every peculiar thing that has to do with my personality,
03:41 -  I ask that you be so the possessor of its, that these people might know that they've heard perfectly from the living God. Give us hearts to receive it, Lord, and to do it,
03:52 -  and we'll thank you and praise you for it in Yeshua's holy name. Amen. Well, I'll tell you the way in which God begins to write a theme like this upon the heart of a servant. Not too far from here, at a Midwestern city, I was invited for breakfast
04:16 -  with some of the saints in the neighborhood whom I've known through the years. I think there must have been six, seven, or eight of us. We had a lovely time of fellowship.
04:27 -  And when the meal was over and it was time for someone to pick up the check, precious lady sitting to my left did so. And I turned to her casually, not even thinking what I was asking,
04:39 -  and I said, Did God tell you to do that? And she said, Why, yes, of course. You can always tell when someone has that nervous giggle that they're kind of spoofing.
04:52 -  So I repeated my question again, Did God ask you to do that? And she giggled a little nervously again and didn't say yes or no, and I pressed her one last time, and then she admitted that God had not told her to do that.
05:06 -  And so I said, Well, why then did you do it? Well, she thought it would be a nice thing to pick up the check. And I'll bet there are nine of ten people sitting in this room
05:16 -  who don't have the foggiest notion of what I'm speaking about right now and would perfectly agree with that woman that it's a nice thing to pick up the check. I don't know of a single person in the history of Christendom
05:27 -  who has ever been rebuked or reproached or criticized for picking up a check. It's a good thing. And nobody ever thinks to question good things
05:40 -  except a God who is increasingly insisting upon the thing which is perfect. You just keep doing good things like that, and I'll tell you there shall come a moment in your life individually
05:55 -  and in our life corporately, a crucial moment in a life or death situation when great issues are hanging in the balance and if you have been habituated to doing good things
06:09 -  born out of your human will and volition and mind, you are going to miss the perfect life-giving thing of God. Now I want you to turn with me to the book of Genesis.
06:21 -  Isn't that always a beautiful place to begin? Third chapter, beginning with the 22nd verse, the familiar story of Adam and Eve
06:35 -  because the rudiments of what's being discussed tonight goes back to the whole inception of the human race and we're still pulling the same boo-boo.
06:46 -  How many of you know that there's a scripture, where is it? I think in Luke the 14th chapter that says, those things which are honorable or estimable in the sight of men
06:57 -  are an abomination to God. What do you think of them apples? I'll tell you children, there are a lot of good things that the world applauds roundly
07:07 -  and that even Christians applaud, which are a stench in the nostrils of God. God keep us from good things, which intrude and defer us from the thing which is perfect.
07:23 -  So we know that Adam and Eve blew it and in the 22nd verse the Lord God said, Behold the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil
07:33 -  and now lest he put forth his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat and live forever. Therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the garden of Eden
07:41 -  to till the ground from whence he was taken. So he drove out the man and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden cherubims
07:50 -  and a flaming sword which turned every way to keep the way of the tree of life. Mr. Art, what has this to do with what you've already spoken?
08:04 -  And my answer is everything. Then as now children, there are only two trees from which we can eat. In fact, as I go on with the Lord, it seems to me that there are only ever two things in any issue.
08:18 -  Have you noticed that? It's always a polarity. It's always a choice between light or darkness,
08:24 -  the kingdom of God or the kingdom of this present world, God's prince or Satan's, the tree of the knowledge of good or evil,
08:33 -  or the tree of life. Always a choice of polarities. You can know that you're really converted
08:40 -  when you're no longer bewildered by what seemed to you in times past as overwhelming degrees of choice. That was my predicament as an atheist.
08:50 -  But somehow as a believer, everything has become grossly simplified in or out, in Christ or not, in the light or in the darkness,
08:59 -  in the Spirit, in the flesh, in His kingdom, in the world. Eating of the tree of life
09:06 -  or eating of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Then as now, God's people ate from the wrong tree. And I'll tell you that it's an intoxicating fruit.
09:21 -  It's a giddy thing to have your mind in operation, tempting, and a wonderful kind of an intoxication to have powers of choice
09:32 -  and to know about things and what to do that's right or wrong. But there's an interesting little statement in a booklet by Watchman Nee
09:41 -  that really bears investigating. Here's what he says. One of the most serious misconceptions among the children of God
09:47 -  is that actions are determined by right and wrong. They do what their eyes tell them is right. They do what their background tells them is right.
09:56 -  They do what their years of experience tell them is right. And a lot of you are looking at me and saying, isn't that right?
10:03 -  No, that's wrong. That children is Judaism. That's ethical humanism.
10:11 -  That has to do with the operation of mind and God has called you to be a people of the Spirit. And I'll tell you, especially in the last days,
10:20 -  there are going to come such perplexities and things that confound minds so unconventional and independent of previous experience
10:33 -  that if you're going to go by what you've done in times past and what you think is right or wrong, you're going to miss it.
10:40 -  And if I could take hours, I could tell you of episode after episode after episode at the leading of God's Spirit
10:48 -  that has led me again and again and again to unconventional responses, wholly in contradiction to what I thought was good.
11:00 -  There are two sources of life, two trees from which we can eat, the knowledge of good and evil,
11:07 -  judgments based on the operation of our mind or the tree of life. And to live from that tree is life indeed.
11:19 -  God said that he established cherubim with flaming swords to keep the way of the tree of life. And I can tell you children that in the second Adam,
11:29 -  God has put aside the cherubim and our return to the garden has been provided. We can eat from the tree of life.
11:37 -  It's the same life which is eternal and the same life which is abundant. It's the life which God has invested in his Son.
11:45 -  And that's why the scripture says, he who hath the Son has life and he who hath not the Son has not life.
11:54 -  And that's why my Jewish people are condemned and have no alternative but to operate continually from their own source of life,
12:02 -  from their own energy, from their own mind. And the end thereof is exasperation, futility, frustration, broken minds, broken bodies, death.
12:16 -  Now I'll give you a little for instance of how God began also to add to my understanding. I got a letter from a precious boy in California
12:25 -  who had read the book, Ben Israel. And he really was a kindred soul, an intense seeker after truth.
12:31 -  He had been into cults and Eastern religions and philosophy. He had gone to Paris and studied. He was all his life long a seeker after truth.
12:40 -  And somehow he got a copy of my book and he sent the kindred soul and he writes me a letter. He's ready to come to the East Coast
12:46 -  and he's going to sit at my feet. We're going to discuss the great issues of life. When I read his background,
12:51 -  I wasn't so quick to invite him under my roof. And I was just about to think of a nice letter to put him off when I got a long-distance phone call of the same boy
12:59 -  expressing the desire to come, flying at his expense. That's the kind that God loves, that constrains God and will not let him go.
13:08 -  At that time I said, look, I'm going to be in California in a couple of weeks. Why don't you save your money
13:14 -  and I'll meet you at a certain place. Why don't you go and visit the Fultz family with whom I've received my baptism in the Holy Spirit
13:20 -  and they'll be able to answer your questions and I'll meet you there. And so he did.
13:25 -  When I came two weeks later, they had answered his questions. He was saved and filled with the Holy Spirit.
13:31 -  And you never saw a guy more ready to go, go, go than this kid in whom the light has broken. We spent about a week or 10 days together
13:40 -  in a kind of a father-son or a discipleship situation where I was taking him under my wing. He had a van and we would drive from city to city
13:48 -  and meeting to meeting. And he was sitting in the meetings learning, listening and having conversations.
13:53 -  I'm not the kind of man who lays down the great principles of the faith or the precepts. I just, that's not my bag.
13:59 -  I like to draw from the existential material of the day the things which God gives us, which are alive in our experience,
14:05 -  and then seek for the scriptural thing that is applicable to it. So we were driving from meeting to meeting one day
14:12 -  and I was sitting in my seat in the van with my arms over my chest, looking out the window, whistling, having a ball,
14:17 -  not feeling under any constraint or compulsion to be clever. Did you ever enjoy that? Hallelujah, to be free in Christ is to be free indeed.
14:27 -  I was not on and I didn't have to be bright and impressive and show forth my erudition and learning in the ways of God. In fact, I've learned that if it's not God who opens my mouth,
14:40 -  the things that I speak are vain, even though they may be scripturally correct and well-meaning and motivated by goodly intentions.
14:51 -  You know what I've come to believe children after about 10 or 11 years? That the same God who created all the earth, the universe,
14:58 -  and all that in it is, is able to open this mouth and to speak out of it. He doesn't need kid-catches help at all.
15:08 -  Well, there I was silent, just enjoying the peace that passed his understanding, and sure enough there was a hitchhiker
15:14 -  standing by the side of the road, and this kid, when he saw this hitchhiker bang, his foot was on a brake,
15:18 -  and he stopped and I saw his face full of expectation. Boy, he was going to witness he was licking his chops, and he opened the door, and in came this hitchhiker.
15:25 -  It was an American Indian, and we learned he had been discharged from the service, and he was, I don't know, kind of just drifting about.
15:31 -  And I took a seat on the floor of the van, and off we drove, and something in my spirit went snap, and I knew that God had provided us with a situation.
15:39 -  And sure enough, we had hardly taken off, and this young believer was coming on like gangbusters. Man, was he sweating at it.
15:45 -  Was he really cracking out those scriptures? I was amazed at his ability in so short a time, and every word was like lead.
15:53 -  Well, 40 minutes later, it was time for this hitchhiker to be discharged, and he went out, and this kid was so perplexed looking. You never saw such a face.
16:00 -  And I took my seat again. I didn't say a word to him, and off we drove. He was like pouting, and behind the wheel,
16:05 -  and he would sneak a look at me from time to time. When was I going to tell him what was wrong? And finally, he couldn't contain himself long, and he blurted out,
16:11 -  Artie said, what went wrong? I turned, and I said, dear brother, you did a good thing to pick up the hitchhiker,
16:21 -  but have you ever considered that the good is the enemy of the perfect? What would you think if a quarter of a mile further up the road, there was yet another man standing waiting?
16:34 -  Here it is whom God intended for divine encounter through you this day, and you drove him by without so much as a look, because the seat which God intended that he should fill,
16:47 -  you have already filled by your own good intention. Let that sink deep into your hearing, children. There's not a people on the face of the earth more compulsive,
17:02 -  more sweaty and grimy in their Christian activity than the people of God. Do, do, do, do. Campaigns, programs, my goodness, what a wearisome nonsense.
17:14 -  Getting in the way of God. And I'll tell you, he may have winked in times past at our well-meaning intentions and patted us,
17:21 -  but we have come to the end of the ages, and the purposes of God are so intricate, so profound, such a complex tapestry of purposes that span continents,
17:33 -  all intricately interlinked that no man dare presume to go off in his own skull as a self-appointed minister to do what he thinks is good.
17:45 -  And if you want to see a morass in a jungle, I invite you to visit Jerusalem, and there you'll find every kind of Christian clod
17:53 -  and amateur and self-appointed evangelist and missionary walking into each other and into walls, making a mess of the holiest city on the face of the earth,
18:05 -  getting in God's way again and again and again. You say, I really don't figure you. I've read your book, and I've heard your testimony,
18:16 -  and if my memory serves me correctly, you yourself were picked up as a hitchhiker about 11 years ago off the side of the road.
18:22 -  You should have the most respect for picking up hitchhikers. I should, and I do. But I'll tell you, children,
18:30 -  I myself do not compulsively pick up hitchhikers. I do not myself compulsively do anything. And if my conscience does not bother me one whit
18:41 -  to have a completely empty car and to drive past the person waiting for a lift and not pick him up,
18:49 -  for fear lest acting out of my own impulse and my own mind and my own good intention, I have obstructed the perfect intention of God.
19:00 -  Well, you say, all right, give me a instance when God does stop you, okay? Have you ever heard of the autostrada in Italy?
19:07 -  It's a superhighway, no speed limit. And I'll tell you, I was going as fast as my VW van could take me. Maybe 75, pushing 80, just having a ball,
19:17 -  whistling my way through the autostrada. Hitchhikers, a dime a dozen, every five feet. You can pick them up by the carload, and my car was empty.
19:26 -  And as I was whizzing by, out of the corner of my eye, I caught a blur of a blonde head and blue eyes. I don't know if I can see the blue eyes.
19:33 -  But I sure saw the blonde at the side of the road. Just a blur, and instantly my foot was on the brake pedal, and that car was coming to a convulsive shrieking halt.
19:43 -  When that thing came to a stop, and it finished trembling, my eyes were blinking, my mouth was open, and I thought, cats, is that an economical way to drive?
19:51 -  And before I could think further, this blonde head had come running down the side of the road and opened the car door, and had come running
20:01 -  and had come in. And when he closed the door, a rush of the Holy Spirit, that the hair was standing up on my arms,
20:08 -  and my scalp was tingling with the presence of God. We hadn't driven two minutes, but I learned that this blonde head and blue eyes
20:16 -  belonged to a Jewish boy from New York City, desperately lost and seeking for the deepest answers to life. Oh, Art, well, you're called to the Jewish people.
20:24 -  That's how come you identify that blonde head. Nonsense. There's a God who is able, children,
20:35 -  if we'll get out of his way to do the thing which is perfect. Give me an instance, Art, in scriptures where well-meaning good intentions act.
20:45 -  If it had been followed, would have had dastardly results. Okay, turn to Matthew the 16th chapter. This is one of the most well-intending acts
20:55 -  that's described in all scripture. Matthew 16 and the 13th verse, when Jesus asked the great question,
21:06 -  who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And they said, some say they'll watch John the Baptist, some Elias, some Jeremiah, one of the prophets,
21:17 -  And they said, some say they'll watch John the Baptist, some Elias, some Jeremiah, one of the prophets, and then the beautiful way that the Lord had
21:24 -  to take a general question and make it pointed in particular and put his finger right on our chest. I love that.
21:31 -  But who say ye that I am? And I'll tell you what, children, there's not a one of us who has come to the end of that question
21:39 -  in all its fullness. We're only at the beginning of understanding of who he is. If we really understood,
21:47 -  we would be acting far less compulsively than we do. And there was impulsive Peter, waving his hand in the air, wanting an A for the day.
21:56 -  Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And he was right, but he was only at the beginning of understanding.
22:05 -  And Jesus said, Blessed art thou, Simon, by Jono, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven.
22:12 -  It was only the beginning of understanding, but the beginning also of blessing, the correct identification of who Jesus is.
22:20 -  And then we read in the 21st verse that from that time forth began Jesus to show unto his disciples how that he must go unto Jerusalem
22:27 -  and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and be raised again the third day. Step one is the first understanding of who Jesus is.
22:38 -  And the understanding that follows that has got to do with shame, suffering, pain, death.
22:47 -  And the same Peter who was so quick to impulsively identify Jesus took him and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord,
22:57 -  this shall not be unto thee. And I'll tell you what, children, if there had been a benebrith organization in that generation,
23:04 -  surely Peter would have won a plaque for the Man of the Year Award on the basis of that one statement. I can see him now receiving honorary Ph.D. degrees
23:13 -  and his picture in papers with a big black hat in the castle and all kinds of recognition, Pulitzer, Nobel prizes, who knows what?
23:21 -  The world would have celebrated so wonderful and seemingly a statement as what Peter made, full of right-sounding intention.
23:28 -  It was good! Lord, let this be far from you. And as much as the world would have celebrated
23:36 -  that statement as good, it's interesting to see what the response of the Lord was to the same thing.
23:44 -  He turned and said unto Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan, thou art an offense unto me, for thou savors not the things that be of God,
23:53 -  but those that be of men. I don't think that any of us have pondered that statement of Jesus as well as we ought.
24:06 -  I'll tell you that it was always very evident to me that drug traffic, pornography, orgies, witchcraft, the occult had their origin in hell.
24:17 -  But it wasn't quite so evident that good things have their origin there also. And I'll tell you, I'm seeing a Satan
24:25 -  so crafty and full of guile that if he can't seduce and corrupt the children of God by invitations to blatant sin,
24:34 -  he'll snare them on things that are good, that he might keep them from the things which are perfect and as effectively keep them from the will of God
24:44 -  as if they had fallen into deepest sin. Thou sabrest of the things which be of men and not of God. Thou art an offense unto me, it stinks.
25:01 -  You say, Art, how can you then operate always from the tree of life, rather from the knowledge, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil?
25:11 -  Well, God has performed a mystery and has invested all things in His Son Christ Jesus. Let's turn to Colossians and be reminded of that again.
25:28 -  Paul speaks in the second chapter and the second verse of the mystery of God and of the Father and of Christ, in whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.
25:44 -  In the sixth verse, we're enjoined not only to receive the Lord but walk in Him, rooted and built up in Him. In the ninth verse, we're reminded,
25:53 -  for in Him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily and you are complete in Him, which is the head of all principality and power.
26:03 -  Do you really believe that? How many of us tremble to witness the Jewish people, intimidated lest somehow they be more clever than we
26:16 -  and will notice our inadequate grammar and they have a greater knowledge of the Old Testament Scriptures and will be made to look foolish,
26:23 -  as if God is asking us out of our inadequacies to do anything. God said to a man by the name of Abram in his 99th year, Abram, be thou perfect and walk thou before me.
26:41 -  Do you remember that? And I will make thee a father of many nations and a father of many nations I have made thee
26:47 -  and I will and I will and I will and I will. Why did he wait for Abraham to be 99 years old before he sprung that one on him?
26:58 -  Because that's the age of utter futility and helplessness. It takes 99 years of walking into walls, of well-meaning intentions,
27:07 -  of trying by our own four senses of well-meaning intentions, of trying by our own fleshly exertions
27:14 -  to produce from the Hagar the fulfillment of God's word to show us that we have come to the utter end of ourselves and let go and let God.
27:24 -  There's no accident that in the same breath that God said, walk thou before me and be thou perfect, he said also, I am Lord God Almighty.
27:34 -  You know, he had never before introduced himself to Abram with that particular phrase. No accident.
27:41 -  Because the same God who calls us to perfection is the same God who does not expect that we are to obtain it by our own striving
27:50 -  and by our own weakness, but by every provision which is in him. I am the Lord God Almighty.
27:59 -  And you are complete in him who is the head of all principality and power. Do you believe that?
28:09 -  You nod your head now, but this is not when you're expected to believe it. Will you believe it when you're faced with a mob of 300 students
28:15 -  who are ready to flay the flesh from your bones? Will you believe it before a cantankerous mob where the atmosphere is so angry and bitter
28:24 -  that with men shooting daggers at you with your eyes and your heart is beating like a trip hammer and you've had a time of prayer with a Christian student
28:32 -  who has invited you, and then you come out of that circle and stand all alone by a microphone before that howling mob
28:37 -  to begin the first of eight days of meetings in which they have put up stickers all over the campus, Katz is coming, one word,
28:44 -  and you were embarrassed to death, and said, hey, what are you guys doing? Katz is coming. What do you think I am, Jewish Billy Graham?
28:50 -  Well, aren't we prayed? And when we felt that we just advertised abstract gospel meetings, no one would come,
28:55 -  so we used your name to attract people. Katz is coming. Well, Katz finally came.
29:02 -  Standing at one o'clock at the Student Union building before the microphone, at which every day another radical comes
29:08 -  and gives an incendiary invitation to violence and to death, and dare you to begin the first of eight days of gospel meetings, four to six meetings a day, Katz is coming.
29:19 -  I'll tell you, if ever a man felt himself to be 99 years old in terms of his inability and helplessness, it's a servant in that situation then.
29:31 -  Well, I gave about a 20-minute message, and then I opened up for questions and answers. And there was a guy who was standing right smack dab in front of me
29:41 -  at the back of the room, and when I walked into that room and saw that guy's face, I knew he was going to be trouble.
29:46 -  And sure enough, his was the first hand that went up, and you should have seen the expression on his face, what a wise Alekki smirk.
29:54 -  And he elbowed his friends, I could read his expression, watch this, guys, I'll take care of this Katz, and we'll end this thing right where it begins,
30:01 -  it'll go no further than this. Hey, Mr. Katz, he shouted in the hearing of 300 students, will you answer me one question?
30:09 -  I went, gulp. Do you believe in hell? You know what, children,
30:16 -  I had never really ever considered the question. I mean, I believe, you know, it's in the scriptures, but I had never really thought it out.
30:24 -  And if you could sit me down, you would find enormous gaps in my understanding. Somebody came up to me after a meeting recently and said,
30:31 -  oh, Art, it was so good tonight, how I would love to hear you preach on prophecy. I said, you're not likely ever to have that opportunity.
30:38 -  What's the matter, she said. I said, I don't have a single message on prophecy. What do you think of that for a Jewish man in ministry to the Jews?
30:48 -  I don't have a single message on prophecy, children. You know how it comes? Because I only have the messages that God himself gives me.
30:57 -  They may not be many, but every single one of them have their inception in heaven in the heart of the living God.
31:07 -  I could no more sit down with a concordance in the theme and try to cleverly construct a sermon than you would ask me to walk over a bed of hot coals.
31:16 -  And I was telling some people in a meeting the other night how I came to a meeting like this in a place where I'd never been before,
31:23 -  a brand new New Testament fellowship. And the word had gone out in that rural community. They had come from 60 miles away, 100 miles away.
31:31 -  Hey, you've got to hear this guy. I heard him in Jerusalem. And they came with their tape recorders poised.
31:36 -  And I came with the peace of God. And they were expecting an encounter with God that was going to singularly lead them
31:41 -  at the crossroad where they were. And I came without a message, not knowing what to speak. And I thought, well, when I'll pray in my motel room that night,
31:48 -  the Lord's going to give it to me. Nothing. As I'm driving to the meeting place,
31:53 -  the Lord is going to breathe it to me. Nothing. And I came to the place of the meeting,
31:58 -  and I went to the bathroom, and I prayed again a little bit more desperately. Nothing.
32:03 -  I came and sat on the front row waiting to be called on. I was holding my Bible in my hands like osmosis, waiting for something to come through the palms of my hands.
32:10 -  Nothing. Finally, the time was ticking away. It was only a matter of moments.
32:15 -  I opened up the table of contents, and I read through the books of the Bible. Nothing.
32:23 -  I came up to the pulpit, and I thought, surely when I pray, listen, Lord, these people are expectant.
32:29 -  I prayed, and I finished praying, and they all looked up, and they were the tape recorders poised.
32:33 -  Nothing. I had a choice in that moment, children. I could have done something that was good,
32:43 -  or I could have done nothing. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever done nothing before hundreds of people,
32:50 -  with your face sticking out and hot flashes under your collar and your knees turning to jelly,
32:59 -  looking at the increasing faces of disappointment of the people of God who thought that you were some kind of an oracle or a mouthpiece?
33:09 -  Talk about dying. Oh, you thought that the death of which the cross eludes comes at the end of the whole thing,
33:19 -  like when we're going to be wonderful martyrs, and it's going to be over in a moment, and a switch is going to be flipped,
33:23 -  and there'll be a cessation of consciousness? Oh, come on, that's groovy. That's the easy part.
33:29 -  The dying to which we're called is continual. It's a death which worketh in us and life in them. I hope you're listening most intently,
33:42 -  because God is speaking something which is perfect. In that moment, when you're feeling all of the pains and rigors of death,
33:52 -  there is such an overwhelming itch to do something, and I could have thought of a lot of good things to do. I could have spoken any number of messages
34:04 -  which God Himself has given in times past. But I'll tell you, if it's not a message for now, it's not a life-giving thing.
34:14 -  So you know what I did? I did nothing. And I'll tell you, there was a silence so heavy
34:20 -  you could have cut it with a knife. And there were a few precious souls that I knew, and their faces were masks of disappointment.
34:27 -  And I just had a choker's butter and said, finally, these people, I have nothing to say to you. And they're thinking to themselves,
34:34 -  for this we came at a great distance. This is the hot shot of which we've heard. He has nothing to say to us?
34:40 -  What's the matter? Has he prayed up? You see, children, and you're not even able to explain. And finally, I said something.
34:50 -  Maybe we're at a new crossroad. Maybe this is a new dispensation, and we're being phased out of the old game of sitting in rows
34:58 -  looking at the backs of each other's heads, looking up at a platform, watching the professional do it. Maybe God is wanting to start something new tonight
35:05 -  in which we are all to be employed. Then the Adam's apples were bobbing out there. Gulp, gulp, gulp, gulp, gulp.
35:15 -  And so we waited. It was painful. And finally, a new believer who had never before ever publicly spoken in a church got up with a trembling voice
35:24 -  and said, Artie said, I have an impulse that's certainly leading toward a certain scripture. And he said, could this be it?
35:31 -  And he read me a scripture from Philippians, and I said, no. I got no witness from the spirit of life. That man sat down with such disappointment
35:43 -  and embarrassed blushing. He had taken his heart in his hand to suggest something, and it was not what God wanted.
35:51 -  Now, I wonder if you can understand this. I believe that God prompted him to say that. And yet it was not the scripture that God was going to employ.
36:03 -  Have you ever entered the school of obedience? It has not a cotton-picking thing to do with our understanding. And then finally, another person suggested a scripture,
36:14 -  and everybody leaned forward and said, oh, maybe this is it. This has got to be it. Nothing.
36:20 -  What an itch to have taken that scripture and fabricate something good. And I think I could have done a reasonable job.
36:26 -  Nothing. Obedience unto silence. And finally, after another lengthy, deadly pause,
36:35 -  there was an utterance in tongues, and something began to well up by the spirit of life, and far away in the other side of the room came an interpretation.
36:44 -  And then something began to quicken, and God began to work. And before we had gotten out of that room that night, God had done something perfect.
36:56 -  You know that we're complete in him, who is the head of all principality and power, and whom has hid all the fullness of knowledge and wisdom?
37:03 -  All you have to do is to be circumcised with him. It says in the 11th verse, with the circumcision made without hands,
37:11 -  in putting off the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ, buried with him in baptism,
37:17 -  wherein also you are risen with him through the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him from the dead.
37:24 -  That's all you have to do, is be buried with him, again, and again, and again. And the third chapter says,
37:32 -  if, there's two better words, if, if then, if you then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above with,
37:39 -  Christ stands on the right hand of God, set your affection on the things above, on the perfect thing, not on the things which are below,
37:47 -  because there are only two origins of anything, above and below, and every good and perfect gift cometh from above.
37:58 -  For you are dead, and your life is hid with Christ and God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear,
38:09 -  then shall you also appear with him in glory. Supposing it didn't please God to appear in glory, when that wise Aliki student asked that question,
38:19 -  I would have been utterly humiliated, and eight days of meetings would have gone down the drain. But you know what I did?
38:26 -  I breathed a little prayer, and I said, okay, Lord, you've got me here. You're on.
38:33 -  I opened my mouth, and you know what came off? I had never studied the question of whether I believed in hell. I said, dear brother,
38:41 -  all my life long, even as an atheist, I have had a profound respect for words. I knew that words were not to be spoken idly nor glibly,
38:48 -  even as an atheist. And I'll tell you, there's a figure in Scripture who vehemently takes that view.
38:56 -  It was Jesus who said that we shall be held accountable for every idle word we speak, and he himself never spoke one.
39:03 -  And there's not another figure in all Scripture who has spoken more prolifically about hell than Jesus Christ himself.
39:09 -  He it is who coined the phrase, out of darkness, wailing and gnashing of teeth, lake of fire, fire that shall not be quenched.
39:17 -  And I said, I'll tell you, that the hour shall come far sooner than you think when you shall find yourself standing before him,
39:24 -  whom you now despised and whose servant you have sought to embarrass, hearing your foolish question played back,
39:32 -  and the answer which God has spoken to you this day, which had you received it, would have saved you from the pain and the eternal anguish
39:41 -  which you shall now experience as your knees shall turn to jelly before him. Something like that.
39:49 -  And I watched this guy in the back room go, He was deflated by the wisdom and the knowledge of God from a fullness that came from the tree of life.
40:05 -  And that was the beginning of eight powerful, penetrating days of meeting that were life for many.
40:13 -  But what should happen, dear children, if you shall utterly cast yourself on God and be buried dead, hid with God in Christ,
40:22 -  and it shall not please him to reveal his glory? Are you willing as much to bear that as the glory also? God led us to an outreach in City College of New York,
40:35 -  85% Jewish. There was no question that this was the arranging of God. I was invited by the Interferocity Group
40:42 -  and the Spirit of God fell in that room and these guys were weeping and God showed us that we would have an outreach,
40:48 -  the first of its kind in New York City, to penetrate the mainstream of American Jewry. And weeks and months went into that meeting.
40:54 -  We spared nothing, money, posters, literature, prayer, fasting. And the night before that enormous encounter, I was at Boston University with another meeting,
41:04 -  blessed with God, and stayed up till four or five in the morning speaking with my Jewish brother who invited me there for the baptism of the Holy Spirit in which he had not yet entered,
41:12 -  thinking maybe I ought to get some rest. No, I seen God perform glories out of my witness. It works when you're 99 years old.
41:20 -  And so I came that next day, I flew to New York, I was picked up at the airport and driven to the meeting. And boy, when I walked in, talk about an atmosphere,
41:28 -  bristling with anger and bitterness. Jews all over that place with yarmulkes on their heads, Van Dyke beards, shooting daggers at me.
41:37 -  I thought I was telling, but I'd seen God's glory revealed before in just such circumstances as this. And so I came up to the speaking stands, I breathed a little prayer,
41:45 -  okay, Lord, you're on. This is it. This is the moment we've been waiting for. This is what we've invested everything.
41:51 -  This is going to be the penetration of the Jewish mainstream, remember? I shall not look in their faces, remember? And I opened my mouth and guess what came out?
42:00 -  Dribble. Just the weak, most limp. The moment that the first word came out of my mouth,
42:07 -  I knew that I was dead, a goner. I couldn't understand it. I was in a condition of fast, I'd seen God brilliantly anoint
42:17 -  in situations like that, nothing, dry as dust. And I finished my pitiful little presentation, and the first one to stand up on his feet was the Hillel Rabbi.
42:27 -  What a specimen. Boy, he let me have it. He showed that audience what a fool I was,
42:33 -  and he ensured for me to think that I could come to these sophisticated intellectual Jews and bring my many evil notions
42:39 -  in the name of that one for whom Jews have suffered 2,000 years of persecution and oppression. Who did I think I was,
42:45 -  bringing the Gentile Bible and trying to persuade Jews out of the King James Version? You, ignoramus, and you don't even speak Hebrew.
42:51 -  And he worked me up one side, down the other. It was pitiful. And he stormed that room, his heels digging into the floor,
42:57 -  and slammed the door behind him. Behind him, the whole room shook. And then another guy got up and continued
43:03 -  where the Rabbi had left off. And when he finished, another got up, and another, and another,
43:09 -  and another, and another. I'll tell you, children, I would much rather suffer
43:17 -  a busted kneecap than what I suffered that day at the mouths of men.
43:25 -  But you want to know what the ultimate death was? It wasn't the accusations and the fierce words from my own kinsmen.
43:33 -  It was the terrible disappointment written in the faces of my own Christian brethren.
43:41 -  They didn't say a word to me, but you know what their faces said? Cats. We thought it would have been you
43:47 -  who would have restored the glory of Israel. Man, we thought you were an anointed vessel. We thought you had experience at universities and campus like this.
43:53 -  What's the matter, man? Weren't you prayed up? And I could not answer them a word
44:01 -  because I had no answer. And there was not a God who was instantly at my side to say, that's okay, and he made nice.
44:07 -  The heavens were as brass. Silent!
44:13 -  And I languished for three weeks like a sick cur with my tail between my legs
44:19 -  whimpering. I never wanted again to stand behind a pulpit.
44:25 -  What did I ever presume to be a missionary to my own people? What made me think that somehow God is going to speak
44:31 -  out of my foolish mouth? Such words as will persuade my kinsmen to believe in the name of Jesus after two thousand years
44:37 -  of the most polluted history. I should have remained the teacher. What a mistake!
44:43 -  And there wasn't a God to make nice or to explain to me why. Three weeks later
44:49 -  I got a phone call one night from a woman whose voice was so thin and full of trembling I could barely make it out.
44:55 -  Mr. Katz, she said, can I come over? I think you can help me. I read your book.
45:01 -  I have some questions you could answer. I thought I can't help anybody, but if you want to come, come. And so she came.
45:07 -  A nervous wreck compulsive chain-smoking Jewish woman so thin you could see through her.
45:13 -  She said, my son was at a meeting at City College three weeks ago and he came home so impressed
45:19 -  and brought a copy of your book he told me that a Jewish man came to the school and simply stood up and gave
45:25 -  his convictions and when he was finished he was mercilessly attacked and he did not so much as
45:31 -  raise his voice to answer any of his accusers and my son was overwhelmingly impressed he had never seen such a demonstration
45:37 -  and insisted that I read your book. She said, now I have and I have these questions. Two hours
45:43 -  later she snubbed out her last cigarette and had asked her last question and bowed that head that was so
45:49 -  full of anguish and consternation and deceit and followed me in a prayer calling upon the name
45:55 -  of the Lord and passed from death unto life. Say what do you think children, was it worth it?
46:01 -  All that dying on my part for one little skinny Jewish woman.
46:07 -  There's only one thing that will save you from living from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
46:13 -  Living from what you think is right or wrong. Living from your judgments. Acting out of your mind.
46:19 -  Doing good things and keeping God from the fulfillment of the thing that's perfect. And that is if
46:25 -  he is the life of your life. The thinking of your thought. The speaking of your speech.
46:31 -  The ministering of your ministry. That you might say for me to live in
46:37 -  Christ. He who hath the son hath life. Did you know that?
46:45 -  And we are complete in him. And it says in 1 John 4.9, this is the love of God toward us.
46:51 -  That he has given us his only begotten son. That we might
46:57 -  live through him. You say Art how does that work?
47:03 -  You mean you die to your own self? You die to your own impulse? Your own will to speak to do what you think is right?
47:09 -  And if you let him, he'll speak and he'll come forth? Exactly.
47:15 -  And when his glory shall be revealed your glory shall be revealed with him also. But are you willing to bear
47:21 -  it when it shall please him not to reveal his glory? You are dead and your life is hid with
47:27 -  Christ in God. When Christ who is our life shall appear
47:33 -  then shall you also appear with him in glory. Art what happens when that takes place? Does it sound like
47:39 -  Thus saith the Lord Jesus in the sound chamber? No, you know what it sounds like?
47:45 -  It sounds like a guy who hobbles up on a set of crutches with a Brooklyn accent you can cut with a knife
47:51 -  who is choked and spluttered in the course of the evening where there's been moments of awkwardness and
47:57 -  and that is Christ speaking transmuting his life
48:05 -  through a Jewish personality conditioned and shaped at his hand for the expression
48:11 -  of his will. Christ in us the hope of glory.
48:17 -  Oh dear children dear children there's a way
48:23 -  and that way is no longer being protected by cherubims with flaming swords keeping
48:29 -  us from the way of the tree of life we're free to come and eat from the tree of life
48:35 -  and live forever. I've come to bring you life Jesus said and
48:41 -  that more abundantly yea though you're dead yet shall you live because it's the same life. It's
48:47 -  both eternal and abundant. I'm not waiting to die to enjoy it. I'm in it right now. It's the life of my life
48:53 -  it's living through me. It's speaking through me. It shapes and molds and brings forth through me his
48:59 -  perfect will. He who hath the Son hath life and this is the love
49:07 -  of God toward us that we should live through him. Lord what's the perfect way to end this?
49:29 -  If you've gotten my newsletter you'll see described such a flow of activity
49:35 -  such a tumultuous ordering of events so substantial
49:41 -  so chock full with consequence touching nations
49:47 -  jam-packed in 30 days of activity Germany, Yugoslavia, Switzerland day after day
49:53 -  doesn't matter in what condition, what place army chapels GI's coming out for kind of a lock
49:59 -  sober Germans, stiff saints confronting millionaires touching a Pentecostal
50:07 -  denomination in the height of its deepest crisis, all the same. And you know what children? At the end of
50:13 -  those jam-packed days you are just as fresh untired as you were at the first
50:19 -  because it's the Father who doeth the works. He's the life of your life
50:25 -  the speaking of your speaking and the doing of your doing that you might say for me to live is Christ.
50:33 -  Symbolically speaking will you refrain yourself from picking up a hitchhiker and doing a good thing
50:39 -  that God might have opportunity to perform the thing which is perfect? Will you trust the witness
50:45 -  of the life which is in you to prompt you to the things which God himself shall perform
50:51 -  by his own wisdom his own knowledge, his own This is the way of the tree of life.
50:59 -  And we are invited to it. Let's not show the world more religionists with haggard faces
51:05 -  dark circles under their eyes nervous anxiety apprehension but a joy and a freedom
51:11 -  and a life which is the life of the son of God made manifest in us in the way that it shall
51:17 -  please him to express it when his glory shall come. In the way that it shall please him to express it
51:23 -  when his glory shall be revealed and not one moment sooner.
51:29 -  Let's bow our heads and enjoy the fruit of the tree of life.
51:39 -  Thank you precious God for every saint who has eaten from that tree. Thank you Lord that Elijah
51:45 -  did not leap forth out of his own human skull because he saw all the prophets being slain
51:51 -  he saw an apostate Jewish people and he thought it would be a good thing now to confront Ahab but in the moment
51:57 -  the perfect moment of your choosing you brought forth out of obscurity and hiddenness
52:03 -  a man in whom you had such possession that you
52:09 -  could command the elements to be spilled by his speaking and invoke fire
52:15 -  by his prayer. Precious God may we live from that fruit
52:23 -  from that tree. May it ever and always be your act your doing in your perfect time
52:29 -  for your glory. Bless you mighty God for such a provision in that tree.
52:35 -  Thank you Lord God that the tree that's described in Genesis has concluded awesome revelation
52:41 -  by the river. Hallelujah. From whose leaves mighty God the nation shall be healed.
52:49 -  May we learn to eat and to live from that tree. It is my prayer for these precious saints
52:55 -  and all your children in the wonderful name of him who is
53:01 -  the source of our life. Even Yeshua hameshiach Jesus the Christ. Amen.