Becoming a Prophetic Church 3 Israel the Suffering Servant - Part 2

00:00 -  Only the righteous are willing to suffer for another people while they're yet in the place of sin and degradation because however the least they are,
00:10 -  they are the least of these my brethren and they're also your brethren if you could but understand. Can you see how many purposes are served
00:18 -  by the suffering of Israel in the last days that will identify who in fact the true church is and reveal to the nations who the true God is
00:27 -  and reveal to Israel the Messiah whose sacrifice they had previously spurned and now receive with gratitude
00:33 -  for he was wounded for our transgressions and with his stripes we are healed. We need to pray saints.
00:41 -  Lord, a post message blessing we're asking that this long dissertation will not fall on deaf ears either here or through here
00:56 -  to the many places in which these tapes or videos will be communicated. That there'll be an apprehension of a new kind
01:06 -  of the depth of the meaning of God through judgment of Jesus at the cross of the Holocaust of the Jew and the Holocaust yet to come.
01:16 -  That the issues of eternity and the issues of the rule of God out of Zion which is righteousness in the earth
01:24 -  is of such a kind, such a nature that it deserves and justifies every expenditure required to obtain it
01:32 -  even in the suffering of your people Israel as in the suffering of your son before them for they are also your son
01:41 -  and cannot be exonerated or absolved from the road to Calvary that he himself trod. And if it's required of that Israel
01:50 -  to what degree shall it be required of us? Is there a road for us? Is there a Calvary for us?
01:56 -  Is there a suffering for us? Probably to the degree in which we identify with that people and join with them
02:02 -  and are caught in the act of it will suffer with them and for them and because of them. For those who hate that people of God
02:08 -  will hate this people and we're willing for those last days sufferings by which we ourselves shall be exalted.
02:15 -  They to their place in the earth and we to our place in the heavenlies rising and ascending and descending upon the son of man
02:22 -  ruling over five cities and some over 10 and the theocratic rule in which we participate from the heavenly locus as they from the earthly.
02:30 -  Whew, what are you saying cats? Much learning has made you mad. Lord, thank you for recording that little tidbit
02:40 -  and let your church dwell upon it. Its own eternal as well as millennial destiny in keeping with the theocratic rule
02:49 -  for which we ourselves are being prepared as they are being prepared from the earthly plateau and we from the heavenly
02:56 -  and the entrance into which is suffering that is received with gratitude as coming from the hand of God
03:04 -  in his great sovereignty and wisdom and necessity that precedes the glory. Bless the church Lord.
03:11 -  This is the kind of word that not only wakes it up but makes it up and brings it in a hearing into a place of maturity by the very word
03:22 -  that only you can convey and perform. So save us my God from being human all to human, American all to human, shallow all to shallow.
03:33 -  Bring us my God into that continuum with the great saints that have preceded us who are not complete without us
03:39 -  and in our obedience and suffering even unto death the whole remarkable redemptive heilsgeschichte of God, the German word
03:48 -  for the salvation history shall be completed to the eternal praise of your glory from one shore to the other throughout all nations
03:56 -  and over the face of this earth. What a calling. To make that calling a predictable church
04:02 -  of Sunday services or programs for our enjoyment is a caricature of the intention of God in those things that pertain to his glory
04:12 -  which we reduce and fit to our purpose in keeping with our Kansas City culture and its requirement. God forbid that travesty my God.
04:21 -  Raise us up to apostolic and prophetic stature who receive a calling with joy and for the God who will give us every enablement
04:30 -  so to fulfill it for Israel's sake and your sake in Jesus name we pray, amen.