Cain and Abel – The First Murder 1

00:00 -  that likes to talk about all of the varieties and pluralisms and ways, it seems that God sees things in stark alternatives and polarities. And in the Psalms we see a consistent theme, the wicked and the righteous. I went through the Psalms, not all the Psalms but I was fingering
00:33 -  back through my notes that I've written right into the Psalms because the reading of the Psalms is part of my daily devotional. I somehow stirred up by this thought somewhere in the early morning hours when my brother's wife called from Burundi thinking that her husband would be right at the
00:52 -  phone. Well we've not yet come to share in the same bed. But once I'm waking that's it, I'm up. And so there was an opportunity to look at this morning's material and to look back into the Psalms. And I invite you to do that. You'll see the persistent theme of the cry of the righteous
01:15 -  who are the object of oppression and persecution by the wicked. What characterizes the wicked is their ruthless violence, particularly vented upon the righteous. There's something about the righteous that provokes the wicked and reveals what they are in their innermost being. In fact,
01:39 -  I think I found the place in the Psalms where it says they are born that way. Let me see if I can find it. And that they are liars and murderers, which is of course the nature of their father. You'll see that as the persistent theme, the cry of the righteous. And for God's
02:13 -  intervention, because it's more than their safety or bodily hurt that they're expressing, but that the honor of God is involved in his defense of the righteous. It's God's name and honor standing for righteousness that is more the wellspring of the cry of the psalmist than it is
02:45 -  their own personal safety. It's wanting God to show himself because their detractors are saying, where is your God? It's an object of scorn and derision that somehow God seems to be absent from the defense of his own saints and that they are the merciless and defenseless victims
03:07 -  of the wicked. So get into the texture of the Psalms and see how that resonates virtually through every psalm. And the cries that are registered there. The cry of how long, Lord, and be still before the Lord and wait patiently for him. Do not fret over those who prosper in
03:42 -  their way over those who carry out evil devices. You deliver the weak from those too strong for them, the weak and needy from those who despoil them. The wicked are invariably the defenseless and the weak who have made God their defense. The Lord is my refuge, my power, my strength.
04:10 -  That very conviction and very announcement to the principalities and powers is a clear invitation to be the object of oppression. So if you want to avoid any of this in your experience, just be a rank-and-file commonplace Christian who has no intention of making God his refuge,
04:28 -  and you'll be spared. But in this radical utterness of casting yourself upon God and not seeing to your own strength as your safety, the powers of darkness hate such a one and will test him. And the Lord allows it, evidently, as we can read in the cry of the psalmists who
04:50 -  are experiencing this oppression without the immediate relief of God. Where is he? How long, O Lord? Why are you silent? Why don't you come and answer the cries of the righteous? So that's why I call the Book of Psalms an end-time book. It speaks more of the realities
05:13 -  that we're going to face than we can know. And the psalmists have a knowledge of God, and so often the psalm does not end with a happy note where God comes through, but rather what's expressed is that there's such a hopeful confidence in the future that he will
05:37 -  show himself strong, that he will vindicate his name, that that confidence and that trust is what sustains the suffering psalmist now. It's the assurance that God will act that is what sustains the psalmist, not the act of God himself. And where does that confidence come from? God's
05:57 -  faithfulness in the past. Because he has come through before, because he has honored his covenant, because he has shown himself faithful, the psalmist is assured that though right now there's no present evidence of God, he's allowing me to suffer this, yet I am confident that he will, because that's
06:20 -  what he's done in the past. It's the history with God that saves men in all of the perils and the uncertainties of the future. That's why they that overcome will overcome by the blood of the lamb and the word of their testimony. What does that mean? That they have a residue of a history of
06:41 -  God's faithfulness that though in this moment for reasons of his own that he is not obliged to reveal, he is not coming through, yet we have the confidence that he will ultimately vindicate his name because he has come through in the past. And we have a solid residue of God's past faithfulness
07:01 -  that will sustain us. So I'm always encouraging young saints to accumulate a history in God. When you put yourself in the place of jeopardy, that if God be not God, you will perish. And that's when he will give answer. We can spend the whole morning just going through the Psalms would
07:30 -  be a precious time. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? When evildoers assail me to devour my flesh, my adversaries and foes, they shall stumble and fall. Though an army and camp against me,
07:52 -  my heart shall not fear. Though war rise up against me, yet I will be confident. So this is a precious tenor of all of the psalmists. Why the reference to fear about being assailed? Because they're the object of the most malicious violent activity of those who hate God and somehow have
08:21 -  a unique way to find out those who stand in that identification with God, that they can ventilate on that visible piece of flesh and blood, a hatred and a violence that cannot be perpetrated against a God who is invisible. See what I mean? God is wanting this fellowship, but when you
08:40 -  obtain it, know that you're marked and that you'll be the object of the ventilation of a hatred against God. The whole world is at enmity against God. God-hatred is the distinction of the unbelieving world. And where do they ventilate that? God who is invisible? No, that expression
09:02 -  of God that is visible and before them in every locality and community, the people of God, the remnant church, but their confidence is in God. It doesn't say if evildoers will assail me, but when they assail me. It's not a question of whether it will come. It's only a question of
09:35 -  when it will come. But when it will come, they shall stumble and fall because God is my strength, my stronghold, my fortress and my tower. He will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble, but there will be a day of trouble. He will set me high upon a rock. Now my head is lifted up
10:05 -  above my enemies all around me. What has made them your enemies? Your love of God and your standing for him and for his righteousness in a world that despises both. That's why they're your enemies. And I will offer in his tabernacle sacrifices with shouts of joy. I will sing and
10:30 -  make melodies to the Lord, not because his answer has come, but before his answer has come in the supreme confidence that it will come. And if it doesn't come in this life, it will come in eternity. That in fact, eternity needs to be factored in to this life, or this life is without
10:51 -  meaning. It's without righteousness if we have only to understand it within the parameters of this life. But when eternity is factored in and God's judgments that are eternal, then those who have gotten away with murder in this life will have their comeuppance. And those who have suffered
11:15 -  for righteousness sake in this life without recompense will receive it eternally as a crown. And then the name of God and the honor of God is vindicated because eternity has rightly been factored in to time. Get the idea? So already that is the divine perspective. That's the normative way
11:41 -  of perceiving reality. And for those Christians who have not rightly considered eternity and are only waiting to die to come into it, they're losing the great benefit and the solace of what can be rightly anticipated and where God will be fully vindicated. And that those who have gotten away
12:01 -  with murder, and where is God? Didn't he see it? Why didn't he act? Well, because he's not required in our time to perform that. But that eternity, what lies beyond this life, is where the full reckoning takes place. And one of the distinctives of the Church is that it does not limit itself
12:20 -  to this life only. In fact, it's more to be said that its comprehension of eternity and what lies beyond this life is the greater reality than this life itself and gives meaning to this life. And I'll tell you what, talk about sanity. And that's either uttermost insanity or it is uttermost
12:42 -  sanity. And the world will hate you all the more because you take eternity into your consideration. And do not invest in this life, the kind of uttermost value that they give it. That's why you can walk through this life not at all intimidated, as if everything depends upon now,
13:03 -  because you're seeing beyond and you're taking it into your present consideration. Like Paul, who seeing the things that are invisible and eternal made his present suffering momentary and light. That future consideration was so vivid in his apostolic heart and mind that it
13:26 -  actually affected the way in which he bore his apostolic suffering. In fact, it's not an exaggeration to say that his apostolic suffering was in no little measure the consequence of his eternal view. That's what provoked the world and its religion to spitefully abuse him. And it will be so for us
13:51 -  also. Thank you, Lord. Well, let's look at our text for this morning, Genesis chapter 4, Cain and Abel. Cain is the first fruit, the first child of Adam and Eve outside the garden and in the earth that now bears the curse and with the pronouncements of the Lord in judgment upon them for their sin.
14:32 -  So now the man knew his wife Eve and she conceived and bore Cain, saying, I have produced the man with the help of the Lord. Next she bore his brother Abel. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep and Cain a tiller of the ground. In the course of time, Cain brought to
14:57 -  the Lord an offering of the fruit of the ground and Abel, for his part, brought of the firstlings of his flock their fat portions. And the Lord had regard for Abel and his offering, but for Cain and his offering, he had no regard. So Cain was very angry and his countenance fell. The Lord said to
15:20 -  Cain, why are you angry and why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin is lurking at the door, its desire is for you, but you must master it. Cain said to his brother Abel, let us go out to the field. And when they were in the field,
15:41 -  Cain rose up against his brother Abel and killed him. Then the Lord said to Cain, where's your brother Abel? And he answered, I don't know. Am I my brother's keeper? And the Lord said, what have you done? Listen, your brother's blood is crying out to me from the ground. And now you are cursed
16:03 -  from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. When you till the ground, it will no longer yield to you in strength. You will be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth. Cain said to the Lord, my punishment is greater than I can bear. Listen to this self
16:22 -  pity. Today you have driven me away from the soil and I shall be hidden from your face. I shall be a fugitive and wanderer on the earth. And anyone who meets me may kill me. Then the Lord said to him, not so. Whoever kills Cain will suffer a sevenfold vengeance. And the Lord put a mark on
16:41 -  Cain so that no one who came upon him would kill him. Then Cain went away from the presence of the Lord and settled in the land of Nod, east of Eden. Cain knew his wife. She conceived him for Enoch, not the Enoch who was later transported. And he built a city. And from that city and
17:02 -  the progeny that issue from Cain is the beginning of the entire revolt against God by the nations and the beginning of the advent of technology and everything adverse to God. How shall I say that? But that it has its origin out of the line that issues from Cain. So isn't remarkable
17:25 -  in the biblical narratives how the polarities are from birth. Esau and Jacob, Isaac and Ishmael, probably Joseph and his brothers. There's like a holy line, a holy seed, and then right alongside and parallel with it the complete antithesis. It's the flesh and the spirit and the one lusts
17:51 -  against the other. And that seems to be a theme right till the end of the age. What shall we say about the end of the age? How about the church? Will there be a remnant church that is in the continuum of the holy line of Abel and Seth and another bearing the same word and name using the
18:14 -  same vocabulary, but not only being opposite in character and kind and spirit, but ventilating an anger against the other even unto murder and death, who will kill us and claim they are doing God a service? Because it's interesting that the first act of murder is over the issue of sacrifice
18:40 -  and altars. So there's a lot here that needs to be dug out and explored, and you need to participate in this because I don't have definitive understandings. And you notice again how sparse the scriptures are. Isn't that remarkable? This is so unique a form of literature
19:08 -  that you can probably say it's only half written. There's an intention in God in keeping it this way that in order to complete it and to give us the fullness of meaning, something is required from the reader. Something is required from the student of the word in which God completes what
19:30 -  is only hinted at, that there's required an active interaction with the word by the spirit to bring about the completion of its understanding. And those who are not willing for that painful interaction being called upon and summoned up out of their own deeps to wrestle with this
19:49 -  and to be dealt with in this, to see our correspondence not only with Abel but with Cain. And maybe there's an Abel-Cain dichotomy going on in our own hearts. There's a war between flesh and spirit that is needing to be resolved, that we might be the one thing or the other.
20:06 -  So it's not an abstract reading. It's not an academic reading. It's a costly reading. Right? We're finding ourselves writ large here. We're being identified. It's not some kind of thing salted away as a chronicle finished and passed and we're reading it with kind of the
20:28 -  curiosity of a mild historical interest. This is living. This is the issue of of Burundi and the two, what are the two tribal groups though? This is fratricide. This is brother against brother. This is tribe against tribe. This is
20:50 -  not black against white. This is black against black. There's something here that will give us an illumination there. And maybe illumination of such a kind, not only to understand that fratricidal genocide, but even to be in a place to stand against it for the future,
21:08 -  to speak to nations and to men before their short fuse is ignited to identify for them what the root of their anger is, which if it's not met will culminate in murder. And in fact, in the very text, do we not have that? Does not God speak to Cain before the murder? That if he
21:28 -  had been heeded and the admonition that were given, it need not have taken place. See how fraught with instruction this is and how the elements are so classic that are contained here, but it waits for us to bring them out, not just for our edification or our enjoyment,
21:50 -  but actually to stand in the place of keeping this fratricidal murder from taking place in our own generation. This going to Africa is more than bringing Bible studies. It's to avert a flood of blood that will invariably come by people who are frustrated,
22:10 -  despairing, angry and give ventilation to that which will result in death. We have to stand for life and even if we fail in it, we still have to stand for it. Why God would take those pains to spare him is a remarkable thing. Why he doesn't allow the full consequence of his sin to fall
22:36 -  upon him but spares him is a remarkable statement of the mercy of God both before and after. The mercy of God before in saying to him, why has your countenance fallen? Why are you angry? Sin is at the door. Don't give into that and then having given to that, having
22:57 -  turned the deaf ear to the admonition and the pleading of God in his love, still when the judgment comes, it's touched by this mercy that he would be spared by being mocked. Even the name Cain means acquired. I have obtained or acquired and the word acquired
23:19 -  runs into the word acquisition. To acquire property, to acquire wealth is a certain kind of mentality that is covetous and envious of the possessions of others that are not your own, which is the root of the murder because he was angry that his brother had some kind of favor with
23:43 -  God whose sacrifice was accepted whereas his was rejected. So a man who is acquisitive and wants to obtain resting by his own efforts is already giving us the seeds of the tragedy that has to come. He's rightly named because in biblical names the character is revealed
24:06 -  in the name. Able means vanity or like a puff, like an air, like a light thing that would dissipate with a breath, like a foolishness or a weakness. So there's a real contrast with the brothers and their names. Isn't it interesting how often the Lord rejects the firstborn
24:32 -  and celebrates and chooses? Jacob have I loved but Esau have I hated. Try to understand that that even while they were in the womb, one was already identified as the enemy and the other, as the beloved and chosen. Think of this in terms of the present state of Israel
24:56 -  and that which will come later, which will be the enduring prophetic fulfillment as against this one whose character is more resonant of Cain than it is of Able and of necessity one had to precede the other. Just if you want to think this through,
25:19 -  there's something thematic in the beginning. Every element that's to be found in this continuum through time and history right through to the conclusion of the age and interim has its origins here. Even her statement, I have begotten, leaves, sounds a kind of a tone or a note
25:42 -  that begins to give you a chill that maybe this son is already doomed from his birth in the very mentality of the mother who takes almost a credit for it and has an ambition for him that bodes ill for the future. I have begotten is the very spirit of acquisition itself with the
26:02 -  Lord's help. It's not the way Christians talk, with the Lord's help, a secondary tribute and passing. I don't know what she said about the birth of Able, but the way that God puts this in the record. How selective is the word of God that in all of the things that could be
26:22 -  said, could be recorded, this is recorded because it's significant and already something that comes right from the advent of birth. The root of anger between brothers. Where is brotherly love? They're both born of the same parents. To what degree are the sins of the fathers fallen on the
26:44 -  sons? To what degree are we seeing the outworking of the death that God said would take place if you eat from this tree? Death not only in terms of the abbreviation of longevity of life, but death in the form that it's going to take in anger and murder. Something was sown that is now
27:05 -  beginning to have its repercussions and expression that we need to know about because what is God's judgment? If you read the Holocaust book, I'm answering at the end of the book the questions raised by a well-known Jewish philosopher that the Holocaust could not have been God's judgment
27:25 -  for two reasons. One, that the victims were not secular atheistic Jews of the kind that populate the West, but the principal victim were Polish Jews who were the depository of orthodoxy and Judaism. Why would they be the victim? And the second question is, how could it have been
27:45 -  God's judgment if a million and a half infants and children were killed in the six million? Is God going to allow innocent children to be victimized? You'll have to read my answer, but I think it's a great question and my answer is that that's what judgment is.
28:06 -  Judgment is not judgment if it only falls exclusively upon the perpetrators of evil, but they need to know that in their perpetration of evil others will be victim with them and because of them and that that should be one of the greatest restraints against allowing our anger to be
28:25 -  expressed as murder. See what I mean? Or eating, making a decision that gratifies our eyes and our voluptuous desire because others will be affected by our conduct. I can say for myself I would be something much less than what I am in God and in his purposes today. I don't know if I would even
28:45 -  be in the faith if it were not for the fact that I have obligation toward others. See what I mean? If it was only myself alone I would have taken chances, I would have indulged the kinds of things that might well have brought me out of the faith, but because I have an obligation to others it's a
29:06 -  restraint that keeps me in the faith and that knowledge that there's consequence for our acts ought to restrain us in ways that we would not otherwise be restrained. So we learned this from the word. Our acts are consequential even for generations ahead
29:30 -  because you know that word says that his blood has cried out to me from the ground. The word actually in Hebrew is plural. His bloods have cried out to me from the ground and the rabbinical commentators give a very interesting explanation why the word is made
29:48 -  plural because in the taking of the life of Abel you're taking every generation that would have issued from him had he lived. So it's the bloods, it's many who are perishing with that one man. How consequential are our acts? Will that restrain a murderer when he knows he's not just
30:09 -  devastating what is before him but generations that might have had life had that man been spared? You think of the tragedy of World War I of which World War II is only a continuation and World War III might be a final expression.
30:26 -  That men who made decisions in smoke-filled back rooms playing with tin soldiers, the kaisers and czars and British naval commanders and all those men who have ambition for military conquest, if they could see what was the result of their ambition, their sinful imperial ambitions
30:48 -  that has devastated the world taking 20 million in World War I, 40 million in World War II, and God knows what the conflagration will be at the end. But if you ever go to France, you'll want to visit Verdun, the no man's land where the Germans and the French went back and
31:06 -  forth for a kilometer of ground day after day, week after month after month, spilling out the blood of an entire generation that the bones of the victims are contained in the ossiary, that's the word for bones, that is as big as a football field of a generation of the cream
31:29 -  of French and German civilization who exhausted their lives over a battlefield with gas and bayonets and barbed wire and mud and muck for that which obtained nothing and set in motion the tragedy of the whole of modern times. The world's innocence, so to speak, was lost by stumbling into
31:50 -  the sin of that violence that could have been avoided, perhaps if there were a church in the earth who would have acted against the imperial ambition of nations and not be content with their Sunday services only, but would have been the prophetic voice of God warning nations of what
32:10 -  the consequence of their ruthless ambitions will be, not only for that generation but all the generations thereafter. Who else should know that but the church? That its silence makes it complicit in the sin of the nations. So we need to borrow into this if we're going to be that church in the
32:34 -  last days and in Africa. It says in the course of time in verse 3, Cain brought to the Lord an offering of the fruit of the ground. Doesn't that sound like something acceptable? After all, that's what his vocation was. He was a tiller of the ground and he gave what he produced. It sounds
32:57 -  right and likewise Abel gave what he produced. He was a shepherd and he gave the first things of his flock and their fat portions and the Lord had regard for Abel. Look at the language here. The Lord had regard for Abel and his sacrifice as if to say God will not consider the religious act
33:21 -  independent from the man who makes it and that the act itself is the expression of the man and if the man is wanting in the authenticity of the truth and devotion of his relationship to God, that no matter what he heaps up on the altar will be found unacceptable. However overtly and
33:41 -  superficially it could be impressive. Remember what I said about that 10-day period of fasting and prayer 24 hours around the clock was without any strings attached. We were making no requirement on God. We desperately needed fire to fall from heaven. We needed a fresh baptism of spirit. I
33:58 -  could tell you we needed it desperately. We never made that a condition for the sacrifice of sleeplessness and 24 hours around the clock in prayer and 10 days of abstaining from food. It was a devotional thing unto the Lord because he's God with no strings attached and that's an
34:20 -  offering that is well pleasing and acceptable in his sight. The moment that we come with ulterior motives to placate God or to obtain as a condition, we have already demeaned God as God as if we're in some kind of commercial transactional relationship with the God who's the creator who doesn't need
34:42 -  our bulls and he doesn't need our offerings and our sacrifices. Am I going to eat your sacrifice or drink your? I've made all this. I don't need that. Don't project upon me your commercial mentality as if I'm calling you only to religion and if you give me this I'll give you that in
35:03 -  exchange and we'll get along nicely. You've missed it and if you embark on that there'll be a greater loss than just vain religious offering. In the end what begins in that is going to end in sin, murder, violence, and death. You're setting up something from the very first
35:23 -  that is an error and so the question is why was one brother's offering found acceptable and there's a no of God to the other. Let's read it. The language is so careful. It's so lean that we would be inclined to miss it because we're not used to language like this. We're not used to
35:47 -  being spoken to like this and what we read in newspapers and magazines over triviality is so verbose and so inundated in words. They go on and on almost that the more shallow the content the greater the quantity of words. Here in the greatness of the content is the sparing of words
36:08 -  but it makes a requirement of us to dwell on every word that has proceeded from the mouth of God and when God says no which is the word here for Cain and his offering he had no regard. Not that he didn't he had little regard. He had no regard is a statement of absolute totality
36:33 -  that the whole thing was totally unacceptable probably for what we have already identified. Its motive stank. It's not what was given but it the spirit in which it was given the mentality in which it was given was found altogether unacceptable and if that was true for
36:53 -  Cain to what degree is it true for us? How much are we doing with this unspoken premise underlying our conduct for God of placating him or what it will get us or what we will obtain if we do it? I have my daily devotional. I've read three chapters. What do you want a medal?
37:21 -  What do we have this mechanical and arithmetical formula of what we have to do in order to satisfy God's requirement and it's always a minimal requirement and I often quote from my high school teaching days how the students would come to my desk the first day of class Mr. Katz what
37:40 -  is the minimal amount that I need to do in order to get by? That's the mentality of the world. What's the minimal amount needed in order to get by? But God says my house is a house of sacrifice and what he gave was not minimal. Now that raises a good question. So what is signified in offering
38:02 -  something from the cursed ground that he thinks God will accept and has no compunction or even the thought to offer blood which would have been a more expensive costly thing to obtain. In fact it would have required the humiliation of obtaining the land from his brother who is the
38:21 -  shepherd and he could not bring himself as the older brother to condescend to come to a younger and ask him for that which was needful. So there's a tremendous issue of pride here and an issue of disrespect that thinks that God will be accommodated to our
38:40 -  understanding and that he will find acceptable what we're putting before him. Raises the question first of a lack of having the curse of God on the ground fixed on the tiller of the ground. That is not to say that God would not have the ground to be tilled
39:00 -  but to be tilled with a reverential awareness that there's a labor here that requires sweat because of a foundational sin performed by my father in which I am also implicated and therefore even as I labor it's with a respectful reverence of a God who has pronounced that judgment and
39:21 -  anything that comes out of such a ground is a pure grace but that I'm not offered as a sacrifice is one thing that Cain lacked. He lacked a reverential understanding of God and why is it that you that on the other hand Abel gave the sacrifice that was acceptable
39:42 -  in the first flings from his flock? Is it because they were accessible to him being a shepherd or did he know that he knew that he knew that only blood, that there has to be a sacrifice, there has to be an expression of death that would eventuate in life, that something was instinctive,
40:02 -  there's no law that required that. A man had to know this only by relationship, only by intuiting the holiness of God could he understand the magnitude of the kind of sacrifice that would be acceptable and that would have to be blood. How is it that
40:23 -  Abel would have this kind of understanding of God and his brother older than he is totally bereft and to what degree are those choices before us now in Cain or Abel decisions and how easy is it? Is this a once and for all thing that you make a determination after that you're on the Abel line
40:47 -  or is it a day by day moment by moment consideration of doing the cheap and the convenient thing or the willingness because of the reverence for God of always giving him the thing that's costly and ultimate and sacrificial. We're faced with these decisions daily and moment
41:04 -  by moment and a lot of us are skating and getting by with the minimal thing and no one is faulting us but are we abounding in the relationship and the blessedness that would be ours if ours was an Abel rather than a Cain walk. This is not a once and for all, it's a tension that's before us
41:28 -  continually to act out of convenience so that for example in two years at a Lutheran seminary every day was a chapel service and every day one professor or another of theology was giving the chapel message and I don't remember one of the hundreds that I heard. Why is that? Not one of them
41:53 -  was memorable not one of them confronted me not one of them required not one of them pierced me is it because men were speaking out of their convenience out of their knowledge because their motive was not to seek God to find his relevant word no matter what the cost because you can
42:12 -  believe if you're going to speak a relevant word it's going to cost you it's going to bring you up before question who do you think you are addressing the faculty and student body like that what do you think that they are you're talking to sinners remember you're not what you're not
42:27 -  you're not tenured yet you know you better watch for your career there's a retirement involved here where you'll have 98 percent of your salary for the rest of your natural life so better play it safe wise guy do you think you're spiritual or something I don't say that these men are conscious
42:45 -  of that but you can believe it's under the substratum of their lives and what they spoke was biblically correct being scholars and because they know that there are men out there who are critically listening to find one fault that they could address but not one speaking was
43:05 -  memorable let alone significant because it did not issue from the life of God but from the mind of man serving the convenience of the moment who knew months in advance on which day he would be speaking and was preparing in such a way not to serve God but to avoid embarrassment and loss
43:22 -  of prestige and status and reputation and that is what characterizes the church essentially today men concerned for their career their reputation rather than what God will say are acting in the cane way and bringing the result of that into the entire congregation who are not getting
43:46 -  life they're getting death someday after something however correct and biblical and doctrinally sound those messages are so whether we're ministers or not we're faced with issues of this kind and that's why we have to invest ourselves in this text it's just an interesting
44:04 -  little note in the firstlings of the flock that abel gives a sacrifice and their fat portions do we have to hear that i mean what's the big deal about that why is that mentioned what does that represent what what is in the sacrifices of Israel what
44:25 -  was the sweet fragrance and incense to God it was not what we would think the value the meat was not the sacrifice and the hides were cast away with the dung the sweet sacrifice were the entrails the guts where the real issues of life and the deep are affected
44:46 -  it's where we really live and the fat what was the significance of fat that is mentioned here that is obtaining in rest absolutely there's the statement of rest which is the statement of faith whereas cane is a striver and acquirer and a covetous man i looked up the word
45:13 -  to obtain or acquire or acquisition means to gain by any means usually by one's own exertions so he was giving God what was obtained by his sweaty exertions and abel was given what was born out of faith which is rest that was accepted and is acceptable still
45:41 -  and what day of the week is it where the exertions of ministers are the greatest is sunday and and there are sweaty performances rather than issuing from the rest of God like what are we going to have for this sunday's message last sunday was a doozy
46:01 -  oh what was it that was uh love your enemies what's this sunday who who knows if it doesn't come out of the same rest by which last sunday's message came it'll be a gritty nervous exertion that will not bring life it has got to issue for
46:22 -  us have you the faith to believe for it if you're the speaker on sunday okay or you can believe for me huh i suspect that if he had been able to humble himself to obtain a lamb he would have found one
46:39 -  inexpensive that had some deformity he would still want to get by in a minimal way okay God is not wanting two altars and two sacrifices but one and so brotherhood real amity and
47:00 -  fellowship and unity and the offering of one sacrifice acceptable to God because the relationship with with men with one another as brothers even being both africans is relative to the relationship with God if we have not that authentic thing in truth what can we expect then between each other
47:21 -  so the answer to africa is not some social system or governmental requirement but a renaissance or the birthing of that authentic relationship with God that would recognize themselves to be with each other brothers not in rivalry and competition
47:40 -  and even blotting out the tragedy of the past but coming before the lord together as one and offering one sacrifice all the more acceptable in his sight because it's offered as one the fact that there were even two independent sacrifices being offered is already the seeds of the tragedy
47:59 -  and maybe we have to ask why the more spiritual one who is able did not seek his brother to to ask that they might make the one sacrifice together was there some kind of super spirituality that enjoyed being distinct from his brother and having this i don't know i don't know but that's
48:18 -  too dangerous of speculation look at the language here in the course of time verse three came brought to the lord an offering of the fruit of ground why does it say in the course of time what does that suggest more than that in the course of time it's as if he didn't do it from the beginning
48:39 -  but over a course of time it finally dawned on him that maybe something needs to be brought if he was going to have received blessing in the field because he's seeing something continually coming from his brother that was not coming from him that finally registered upon him as a necessity
48:58 -  but was not his understanding from the first in the course of time see how the lord doesn't spell out these details but the phrases the language is so pregnant but it requires our investment in the wrestling with the expression knowing that there's not a syllable a word a
49:19 -  piece of punctuation out of place that this is in the wisdom of God to give us this record in this way in the course of time slow to realize what his brother had all along been performing and maybe that's why the cane was not brought in to able sacrifice because it had been so long spurned
49:42 -  it may well be i would suspect that in that course of time not only was cain not offering his own sacrifice but he was rebuking reproaching and and condemning what's the word spitefully persecuting or mocking his brother for that exercise to finally go maybe i ought to be doing something
50:04 -  none of this has told us but we're looking at not the anatomy of murder the anatomy of violence the anatomy of failure of brothers to be related and the and the seeds of this pertains to it so we're we're not just taking antiquarian interest in a past episode we're looking at probably the
50:27 -  most vital issue of our generation not only between the hutus and the other other tribe but what would you say about the serpians and the croatians and the bosnians and the what the final group they're from kosovo
50:47 -  yeah but what are they what's your nationality muslim no yeah well they're from well albanian albanians they're albanians and muslims but ethnically and racially they are yes they became muslims out of the turk ottoman dominance in the 15 16th centuries and retained
51:10 -  that as a religion of convenience whereas the orthodox and the catholic remain quote christian and then there's been conflict and war and fighting over this generations over these religious differences so that when one has an opportunity to ventilate the anger of the historic past when
51:27 -  they were on the receiving end they do it with a vengeance so but yet ethnically like like the africans they are racially the one but in terms of a tribal difference or a tradition or a religious distinction or some episode out of the past they are enemies and they ventilate that with such
51:49 -  unbelievable spite two days ago on my computer in my internet a yugoslavian brother who had been reporting the war over defending serbia sends me yet another message he says the un inspectors have not found a hundred thousand graves that have been reported of those men who were shot
52:10 -  in cold blood and and buried in the surface graves they've only found three thousand and maybe at best they'll find nine thousand so he says the whole report of serbian atrocity is greatly exaggerated and and the and the the war and the bombings of yugoslavia therefore were unjustified
52:31 -  so i answered him and said since when is atrocity the issue of number doesn't matter whether it's 300 000 100 000 or 3000 or three but cold-blooded murder in anger and violence and defenselessness is the crime and God's judgment using the united states was not excessive at all and you need to
52:58 -  bring that message of repentance to your nation and stop justifying them here's the great question just before i'll break how is it that cain in seeing that his brother's offering was accepted and his refused was not contrite and broken at the failure of his offering to find equally an
53:20 -  acceptance why instead of being contrite and broken lord how did i miss it my brother's offering is acceptable and mine show me my fault but instead it incurs an anger which is going to eventuate in murder that is to say there was a pregnant moment of choice as there always is
53:43 -  in every issue that ever comes before us on how to interpret and rightly understand the meaning of a given situation before God rather than ignoring it and compounding our error and sin the worst until it will manifest itself in the form of death he missed a crucial moment
54:05 -  when he could have been contrite he reacted wrongly in anger rather than in contrition and how many times is that true of us so anytime you experience anger stop and ask yourself is this a right response to this provocation or to this event my reaction is wrong something
54:33 -  anger is there's only one who's justified in righteous indignation it's God but my anger at being hurt over the failure of this husband this man this church this minister my my anger is suspect and i'm not going to go further until i have put that before you and you'll show me
54:52 -  that there's something wanting in me that explains this reaction before i go any further that would have saved the church a lot of unhappy failings flights discord and collapse look how gracious and loving God is to even take the initiative to lead able
55:12 -  cain into the kinds of consideration that would have been redemptive by saying why is your countenance fallen and why are you angry not allowing the man himself to speculate but even giving him the drawing out his heart to consider is the marvelous grace and mercy of God that was
55:34 -  completely ignored so we're beginning to get something of the anatomy of sin where even the sin is so hardened that it's impervious to the wooing of the tender graces of God that could have saved a came from murder though the the record is so sparse we're not told but we can
55:55 -  see from his his actions and his attitude there's already a history of sin that has hardened to the point that now makes him even deaf to the wooing of God and sets in motion the rest of that tragedy but how did cain know that able sacrifice was accepted and his own was refused
56:18 -  how would they know and for that i'm indebted to matthew henry who says likely the accepted sacrifice was consumed by a fire that fell from heaven wow that's right and the other was left standing there to rot and to reek is God still acting like that today
56:41 -  and can we tell the difference where his fire has fallen and the other thing that has offered is only the reeking or are our own assessments so dull that we can't even tell the difference in him we're going on blithely in our ignorance remember david said that he would not offer to
56:59 -  the lord what cost him nothing amen amen that's why God loved david he was beloved because he knew that if it's cost free it's unacceptable to God how about this school how about ben Israel how about what has the potential now to touch africa was that cost free
57:19 -  is this school a snap are we are we pulling this out of our briefcase session by session what what what is the sacrifice that makes this acceptable God because his fire is falling upon it you know how i know because someone is breaking someone is weeping someone is being challenged
57:37 -  someone is examining their life in the light of what God is saying he's approving it's a sacrifice i'm getting a little really goes to thank you lord and what it's a small sacrifice very thank you for receiving it and honoring it with your fire God forbid we should have gone through these days
57:55 -  and only received some mechanical instruction it was a good time i really enjoyed that uh blah blah blah we thank you lord that when your fire falls it becomes an event of enormous significance for our own lives and the consequence for the nations may it continue to fall lord may
58:12 -  be sacrificial for us all may more of us be finding ourselves up at three or four in the morning praying for that day's class and whatever else is required that that this will be found in your sight acceptable and now