Community and Life Together 2 of 4

00:00 -  between human or romantic love and spiritual or Godly love seeing that it has come up and it's so critically important where he writes romantic love a human love we can write romantic because I think that's what he's
00:18 -  speaking about says human love is directed to the other person for his own sake and there's the very last remark I think that was made before the break and one of the ways of distinguishing a true romanticism from the false is what
00:33 -  end does it serve if it's a ploy a device maneuver to win something for oneself which is almost invariably true that's not a true romanticism a true love spiritual love loves him for Christ's sake it's a different kind of
00:52 -  love therefore human love seeks direct contact with the other person it loves him not as a free person but as one whom it binds to itself it wants to gain to capture by every means it desires to be irresistible to rule human love has
01:08 -  little regard for truth it makes the truth relative romanticism false romanticism will always do that guild reality put a rosy hue on it in fact the romantic romanticization of the crucified Christ has done more to
01:29 -  destroy the power of that great theme than any single thing else and I think attributed almost exclusively to Catholicism and we wish we will see Christ dangling on a cross looking more like a ballet dancer almost essentially
01:42 -  depicted with roses and garlands and flowers and some kind of sickly sentimental thing that entirely robs the meaning that God intends to the cross so there's a vivid illustration of a reality being disguised and gilded
01:59 -  romantically taking the same thing but transmuting it and spoiling it turning it into the opposite intent of God thinking to do man's service because it's serving a self-serving animal I'm not clever enough to be able to see it
02:17 -  through but it serves a religious and the sentimental thing that doesn't want to see Jesus come out of the grave that would rather pine and moan about oh what a pity that he had to die and the Jews who killed him goes hand-in-hand with
02:33 -  this sentimentalization than a Christ who was crucified by the pre-ordained wisdom of God and released by that the salvation for all mankind so this sentimentalizing is the very contradiction of truth it makes the
02:53 -  truth relative since nothing even the truth must come between it and the so called beloved person human love desires the other person his company but it does not serve him on the contrary it continues to desire even what it seems
03:09 -  to be serving human love cannot love an enemy that is one who seriously and stubbornly resists it here we come to a real punchline if we are predicated on a false love and a romanticization of something will miss the final and the
03:28 -  absolute test of our love that God has ordained in the last days by a confrontation to those who have been the enemies of the gospel for our sake it's an interesting how the subject comes back now to the eschatological
03:44 -  drama of the last days where God revives again the Jew and is dealing with him through the church is the final out working and if we are repelled by a people who are harsh critical opposing us in their ignorance and prejudice can
04:01 -  we bear it the illustration I often give now is one of Paul himself maybe he'll remember that in the day when a Jewish hitchhiker was picked up and brought here because we've been Israel I was away at the time Paul shared this with
04:17 -  me upon my return and he was Paul showed him to a place to stay and obtained something for him to eat but before he could turn away this man who was a nothing a bundle of rags a piece of lump and something off the street
04:34 -  complained and did not express gratitude and something in offended hospitality rose up out of Paul's gut as a Jew with another Jew that was akin to murder my question is we haven't yet discussed this in full how will the church react
04:54 -  that is not Jewish to a Jewish people who come to it in the most untoward condition completely shattered in their whole orientation beside themselves I mean even at our best we're trying what will we be at our worst suddenly dropped
05:12 -  in and dumped on Christian communities who have been positioned by God along the way as the places of refuge and flight and turning their nose up at the very hospitality and refuge that we have provided at the risk of our lives
05:28 -  if there's no scorn like a woman how does that same goes hell have no scorn as a woman well have no fury as a woman scorned and what will the body of Christ reveal when its hospitality is scorned by a people whom they think they're
05:48 -  doing favor and that they should be grateful but being as ornery as we are and cantankerous and in our worst mood because we have been suddenly uprooted out of our security and cast upon places we would never have chosen to come what
06:04 -  face will you show then because it says I will meet with them in the wilderness of the nations face to face and there I will bring them into the bond of my covenant and under the rod of my authority that something happens in that
06:22 -  meeting in that communion of a people in their final extremity with a God whom they meet through the people who are prepared to receive them because they see in their faces not mere religious obligation or begrudging condescension
06:37 -  but the unconditional love of God that cannot be offended against the issue of love in the last analysis and Jesus himself says this on the Sermon on the Mount is the love of one's enemy so if we have been operating on a sentimental
06:57 -  plane unbeknownst to us thinking that it was love a kind of make-believe that has never been tested because you know it's possible to go on that way in marriage so long as there's a symbiotic thing by which both partners are benefiting from
07:13 -  the illusion and are happy about it affects a certain kind of compatibility and enjoyment but it's not true but when it's tested by reality something has got to break and we are moving toward a final confrontation a final testing in
07:30 -  a final revelation so that what he's describing here is not some minor point but a great point human love cannot love an enemy that is one who seriously and stubbornly resists it where it can no longer expect its desire to be
07:48 -  fulfilled there it stops short namely in the face of an enemy there it turns into hatred contempt and calumny and I'm very fond of saying that the same believers today who love Israel who want to pinch the cheek of Jews and who go tripping
08:04 -  off to Israel to plant trees and attend conferences if that fascination is sentimental and not the outworking and consequence of a love of God in union with him but something elaborated out of their own solishness when Israel will
08:21 -  fail to be what they think it should when their romantic illusion is shattered that seeming affection will turn to hatred mark my words that those who right now profess to be so taken up with Jews if they're taken up on the wrong
08:40 -  basis of an illusion of affection and and imagining and fantasy because they want so much to be Jews when this people will disappoint them their so-called love will turn to hatred and in fact how many times more than not has that happened in
09:01 -  marriage that the love turns to hatred when the when the imagining of the romantic illusion is birthed and the reality is not conformed to the expectation the love which was never a true love which was a love of love rather
09:15 -  than the love of the person cannot stand that failure and in and in the sense of betrayal and disappointment that in court love turns to hatred so and if we have been operating like that in our marriages what then should we expect in
09:33 -  our fellowships there's such a remarkable corollary between the allowance of illusion in the realm of our private life and our marriages and what we bring into the issue of the body and the question of our fellowships we
09:48 -  need to have in both an uttermost authenticity and reality but you know that will never have it independent of each other and do we love one another to enough real love that doesn't serve our interest but the interest of the
10:01 -  brother to even pierce the bubble even to blow the whistle on the thing that's phony and deceitful when when the Lord will reveal it to us because it has to come as a revelation most more often than that from outside the person who's
10:17 -  deceived even if they're enjoying the benefit of the deception will you blow the whistle that's the kind of love that God is wanting to see expressed in his body the church because it's in perfect conjunction with the truth it's the
10:38 -  ground and pillar of truth and the love of the truth and the love of God is one the same so it takes a supreme jealousy for the authenticity of the church without which there'll be no glory unto God unto him be glory in the church by
11:00 -  Christ Jesus and except we're jealous that he received the glory will not have the courage nor the love and the love for the truth to be to each other what God's church true church is his provision for as antidote to illusion
11:18 -  make-believe wishful thinking false romanticism and all the rest by which mankind is dying in leaps and bounds the mental institutions are chucked full of broken fragmented souls who could not bear reality when it came they were not
11:36 -  prepared for it and ended up in some kind of confinement where they're shielded from it and dumped up with drugs or electric shock treatments church has a mandate and a witness of reality and truth but it's not going to come
11:53 -  cheaply and my question is whether it will come at all except that we are in the intensity and truth and frequency of relationship that is community Israel
12:34 -  but one thing outstanding was the word he never to give her a husband she chafed discontinuous and it was a real problem for her and eventually she ended up in bed with Eric Flyboy being in plain with anti-Israeli propaganda and was just
12:54 -  against Israel for whole passion in turn to a complete preoccupation with the injustices and everything is a good picture of the church that has been sentimentally related to Israel rather than authentically in love
13:24 -  shared cars and share a certain amount of assets and possessions and I think the whole thing fell apart and one of the verses that came out today was John 2 I think it was verse 24 I want you to comment on it I'm asking a question I'm not making a statement but Jesus did not commit himself unto them because he knew all men and needed not that any should testify of man but he knew what was in man and the question that I'm asking if Jesus wouldn't totally give himself to other men which is what some of us have tried to do in the past and haven't stopped how does that fit into the context of what you're teaching on community?
14:05 -  I think the question rises from not seeing the total context of these verses I think what precedes what you read is this many believed on him when they saw the miracles which he did but he would not commit himself to them because he knew what was in him but he knew what was in man that is to say they came to a proper conclusion about him for the wrong reasons they could not say about as he said to Peter when he said who do men say to him who do you say to them? who art the Christ the son of God blessed art thou Simon by Jonah for flesh and blood hath not revealed this to you but my father which is in heaven Peter came to the right conclusion about Jesus who had more opportunity to see his miracles but it was not by that conclusion drawn from a human seeing but by the revelation that came from the father
14:57 -  he would not give himself he would not commit himself to those who had come to a right conclusion about him but for the wrong reasons they must come by the revelation that was from above because he knows what is in man even to come to right conclusion for the wrong reasons means that sooner or later you'll betray that conclusion only a revelation will endure every trial and test made against it but to come to a correct conclusion will go up like a puff like just embracing Israel for the wrong reasons when it's tested we need a revelation we need God's love and see it in the context of his purposes or when it shall be required of it'll go up here's what I wanted to say about this false fascination for Israel you know what my own thumbnail or measure of my index of whether it's a correct love and appreciation for Israel does it does that same believer have a corresponding identification with and love for the body of Christ in its own locality
16:03 -  or is this some kind of substitute of a more fascinating and titillating kind as a compensation for the dullness and the lack of attraction of the body in the locality where it is more often than not I have observed that's the case not only do they not have an attachment and an identification and love for the local church not even for the local Jews but somehow they find the Jews of Israel much more attractive than those that are right under their nose they'll travel 5,000 miles to meet the Israeli and right next door around the corner is a Jew for whom to have a total indifference some things are missed there that's too selective that's too partial that is not the love of God that's a self-serving sentimentalism that has romanticized something for the benefit that it confers for that one who has made that identification it does something for him more likely her
17:08 -  it's a woman's thing by and large which is the vain offer to be disenchanted with the local body and come to the community seeking an identity right a formula for disaster absolute formula for disaster to think that it's going to be some relief and romantic alternative to the dullness and dryness of the fellowship for which you came
17:30 -  dullness and dryness is the name of the game and the way that the Lord demonstrated this to me is a visit once to YWAM in Switzerland there had been a terrific windstorm a day or two before and the trees had been totally uprooted the place was strewn with great trees littered all over the place and I had not seen a phenomenon like that and someone was explaining to me well Artie said the reason all the trees came down is that they were not deeply rooted all their roots were at the surface because this environment has always known abundant rainfall and so on and so forth it has not had to go deep to find its nutrient and its source of life and I thought to myself how much like the church you know easy believism cheap grace plenty of tapes and books and stuff like that and a phraseology and we become inducted in apostolic and prophetic things we've learned a new vocabulary with the body of Christ or whatever power of evangelism whatever the latest thing is surface stuff but comes the wind comes the stone uprooted and down
18:38 -  what's God's alternative dry seasons where those roots have to go down to find the water of life down down down but how many of us can bear it when something inexplicably goes wrong with our preacher and he can strive and seek the Lord and groan and fast and the word still comes out like sawdust and you chafe and you're restless and how long must you bear this and right down the street there's a charismatic fellowship that's knocking them dead and people falling out of their seats and being slain in the spirit and here's the dull dry predictable monotony of your fellowship you know what I suspect it's God testing commitment how joined are we to that people in that locality and if we're joined let it be dry and ever so dry let us die of malnutrition and thirst except relief come from above but we are committed unto death
19:46 -  and I think that's God often testing the depth of our commitment if we're just shallow we want fascination we want a good word enjoyable fellowship what happens when it ceases and why has it mysteriously ceased and how long will the remain dry but so long as it does the roots go down deep to find a source of life that is not instantly and immediately available from some adept minister or speaker that with whom we've been related God's after something enduring and it's going to be tested by winds that will blow and what if the school program flop and we go through a whole season now the next week or two weeks and groan our way through and wonder if we'll ever see daylight again we're at God's mercy he could do that what a testing for ourselves how calibrated are we to being gratified and if we're not gratified how quick are we to pack up into them
20:51 -  so the church that is the ground and pillar of truth is no small thing and God will test it whether our love is a self-serving love some symbiotic thing our attachment to Israel for the benefit of the delight we enjoy some romantic notion of ourselves as nights and shining armor who are the key to Israel's salvation is that that nation is so clogged with carnal Christians of every description who think that they are God's appointed deliverers who couldn't fight their way out of a paper bag or wipe their own noses and then their own fellowships they were a mess nobody sent them they sent themselves and just clogging up the works for the few authentic believers that have been sent of God who can bear sacrifice and I'm not there to gratify themselves isn't remarkable how often Israel is the test the issue that reveals the true and the false
21:54 -  the famed and the real the sentimental and that which is authentically the love of God I mean I can't just say that some people are joined to some church and it's the church of Christ it's a religious system it's something that's going on in its own spirit it has nothing to do with God it's a money making corporation organization and then to leave something like that ought to leave the body of Christ is obviously two different things absolutely if you have a congregation that is the body of Christ I mean we have no ground to say we just up and go but in your unbelief and you were saved in some system that's not of God completely and you're just totally dead in it then that's another thing
23:17 -  I just think that we need to have the maturity and the spirit to know the difference between leaving some dead thing and then leaving something else I hope I didn't imply that I'm encouraging people to stay in that dead institutional thing but I'm saying that even in the body it's going to be dry it's going to be unattractive it's going to be difficult and we will be tempted to flip to some other alternative that seems more attractive No I've not been joining believers to give themselves to something that's not the church at all I'm talking about the church the body but even there is not a depth of commitment you know that God is asking Okay
24:05 -  Somehow to me what you're describing is just like the marriage you talked about before that what we discover as we you know I've never been in a church yet that I have when you go in you see the worship and you see it looks wonderful and then as you and it looks so this is going to be great and it doesn't take long before you begin to be disillusioned again because you discover what looked like on the surface a commitment is not there and to me the issue is Did God say go to that fellowship? If God said go to that fellowship then until God says leave that fellowship I don't think you're free to leave that fellowship and so the issue is not whether there's life or not there it is what has God said in some of these issues in particular those kind of issues You know if you didn't hear God say go there you know what I like to tell people is then go where God has told you to go go to that church and stay there until God tells you to leave don't make a decision based on I don't like the preaching I don't like the music I don't like you know go where God has told you to go
25:08 -  I want to take up another side of the coin of love I said are we loving enough to pierce the other brother's bubble? Now I want to take up the question are we loving enough in that case it was loving enough to speak and to address something now the other side of the coin is are we loving enough to withhold speaking? To remain silent not to bring a correction that we might think ourselves justified in bringing because we have a biblical mandate when that's not what God is wanting in the moment and I can remember vividly this brother Jim the electrical brother going through this terrible dealing of God a real devastation We were coming back after a Sunday fellowship and we passed his trailer I was with Inger and I stopped for a moment she said why don't you go in and I almost started to bring a word of comfort you know shouldn't we but I was checked and I couldn't and how will that be interpreted?
26:14 -  If you're an elder or a leader or a pastor and you don't immediately seek to bring amelioration and help and comfort to someone who is groaning and some dealing with God you're likely to be construed as being heartless or loveless or indifferent But Paul will remember I hope he will remember what happened because we did not interfere with God's dealing that sometime later whether it was days or weeks I do not know but in the moment appointed by God I'll always remember this we were at the old dining hall down at the camp and Paul was speaking on a Friday night Shabbat And I don't remember what was said or how it was said but there came a certain moment this brother broke. Do you remember that Adrian? This brother broke. I had never seen the depth of conviction and breaking as happened to him in that moment.
27:09 -  The time had come and the moment of God's appointment had come and we saw a sovereign work of God that was so deep that the wife who had been praying for him now became intimidated by the place to which her husband had now been brought that far exceeded where she was. So we have had opportunity to go into this and he takes it up here. Are we ready to leave him along with the word? Leave the brother alone if a word has come. And even for a long time are we willing to release him in order that Christ may deal with him? Here's the other side of the coin of bursting the bowl.
27:51 -  Now here we're called to restraint and to withholding which is more likely to occasion a reproach or equal as a reproach as having intervened and said something that would be misconstrued as lovelessness. True love, isn't it an ultimate paradox that true love is the thing most likely to occasion the reproach of lovelessness whereas sentimentality that has a self-seeking end is more likely to be applauded by the shallow as being love. To leave alone and not to interfere with a brother who is under the dealings of God is a remarkable restraint.
28:38 -  I think I gave the illustration of the day of that watchman knee gives when he had his Bible tucked under his arm and he was going to correct the brother. It's a clear biblical mandate. This was wrong. That was wrong. The scripture says this and this. He had the Bible on his arm. He walked. He came to the brother's house. He raised his arm to knock on the door and to bring the correction. That's as far as his arm got. It never touched the door because the life of God suddenly went out of him.
29:02 -  He realized that though technically he was right, the life of God was not there because the moment was not there and he wisely simply walked away. So whether it is to burst a bubble or to withhold, it will require a remarkable discernment, a remarkable discipline, and a remarkable love of people who have come of age. I don't know. Something right now, something happened in the church two weeks ago. That very thing happened to me.
29:36 -  I was attending this fellowship. The pastor would get up and preach every week. But this particular week he didn't. He let one of the elders preach. So he got up to preach. He was preaching the Bible. He was a football coach. He talked about if he was attacked, if somebody had attacked him, that he would defend himself. In other words, let's be realistic. There's no way I'm going to stand by while my family is blah, blah, blah, blah.
30:11 -  And I thought to myself, in the pastor, no one ever said that, and the church was over. And I went home with him. And I remember that. I mean, the elders in the church. I mean, all the kids were there. So I wanted to go by and see him. And I did. I looked at his house. And I talked to him about it. What you're really touching here is a great thing for the church. I mean, if the church has any peculiarities or marks, it's their landline.
30:39 -  What you're touching here is not something just easy. I mean, it's the deep truth of the church. And we still haven't talked about it. Of course, his wife had to leave. But what I'm saying is that I thought he should get out before the church. And after I had raised the question, he didn't get to talk about it. He still took his stand and said that I've come this far and this is what I believe.
31:03 -  If I'm attacked, I will defend myself. I'm a fighter. So I brought it before. It was Wednesday night service. And I went before the pastor, some of the elders that have prayer meetings with some of the churches there. And the pastor defended in the same way. Well, he hadn't come up to that point yet.
31:21 -  And I don't know. Sometime at that particular moment, I believe that God was leading me to go over and raise the question in that church and to that brother about what the statement he made when he was preaching. So, you know, you're talking about that. And at one point, you shouldn't. And then at another point, God is urging you and umping you to address that right now.
31:42 -  Because what this guy says is really one of the pillars, one of the deep truths the church has. So I agree that sometimes that only comes in the knowledge of the Spirit at the moment. Those that are led by the Spirit, these are the sons of God.
31:59 -  If someone get up and maybe get an idea and make some statement about the truth, you may want to address it tonight before you leave or whatever. And then there may be a time where you go. Amen. I mean, some some comments don't need to be commented upon. They're complete statements in themselves and it's self-explanatory.
32:22 -  It doesn't mean if I don't comment that I'm not appreciating what's being said. Here's another statement just like that. I don't think it means any comment that's understood by us all. Spiritual love will speak to Christ about a brother more than to a brother about Christ.
32:40 -  It knows that the most direct way to others is always through prayer to Christ and that love of others is wholly dependent upon the truth in Christ. So that it's a nice saying. The most direct way to others is through prayer to Christ. And that the love will likely speak to Christ about a brother.
33:02 -  The spirit of premium puts on true spirituality. And we can't do this by the numbers or be mechanical. And have we grown in this? And supposing we miss it, are we in a loving environment in which we can afford to miss?
33:21 -  Or will we be instantly shot down and censured? You know, how many men who have prophetic callings and are awkward as all get out in the infancy of that calling are intimidated and shut down and out at the very inception of the walking out of that prophetic calling. There's nothing more awkward than a young prophet who's a mess.
33:44 -  And you have to have patience to hear such a one out. It's a mixture of things that come from God and out of his own soul. And to to filter out the one from the other and to even to be able to help him and say this was from God.
33:58 -  But when you move from this to this, it began to become your own opinion, your own vested interest. Thank you, brother. I need to hear that. But instead, such a man will disrupt our services and be an annoyance.
34:13 -  And we'll either directly reprimand such a one or we have such an atmosphere that is religious that does not permit him even to test his wings. So you can see that we need a kind of an environment where people can afford to make a mistake and not to get shot down. Or else how are we going to grow in our knowledge and our discernment of both good and evil, if not by the exercise thereof?
34:40 -  And notice that the discerning of what is good is ultimately more difficult than that which is evil. And in the last days, the fight, the snare for us is not to avoid the evil, but to watch out that we don't give ourselves to the good and miss the perfect. So this discernment has to grow by the exercise thereof in an environment that affords practice.
35:02 -  See what I mean? Without getting shot down. And I can tell you, nothing takes the heart out of a speaker more than to look out on an audience that either looks like it has its arms folded over its chest, waiting for him to make a boo-boo, and with an attitude like that of showing me, you know, I'd double dare you to come through, whether that's actually their heart or they give that appearance.
35:27 -  Even if it's not their heart, we often think that's the way they look. Then an encouraging room, a matrix of acceptance and love that draws the heart of God out through the mouth of the speaker as he tentatively feels his way, as was the experience of Reggie the other night, on new ground, difficult ground, and ground bitterly opposed by the forces of darkness.
35:52 -  And to begin to move in this and begin to even speak of it with such a tentative and delicate thing needed every encouragement from a body that is a community, rather than an audience waiting to be blessed, and if they're not blessed, you know, feed them to the lions. So just another glimpse of what God is after.
36:16 -  And now this final thing. The issue of who constitutes that community, how are they to be selected? Do we select those that are like ourselves, the great temptation, or do we allow God to compose those of his own choosing?
36:45 -  That we would never have chosen. And Bonhoeffer writes, every principle of selection and every separation connected with it that is not God, so to speak, but is predicated on our own choosing is the greatest danger to the Christian community.
37:08 -  When the way of intellectual or spiritual selection is taken, the human element always insinuates itself and robs the fellowship of its spiritual power and moves it towards sectarianism. The exclusion of the weak and insignificant, the seemingly useless people from a Christian community, may actually mean the exclusion of Christ.
37:37 -  Boy, is that ever juicy. Is that worth the price of the book? You know what, you want to know something? One of the things through which I had to wrestle about this school, private confessions, was your seeing our community.
37:53 -  It was calculated for your disappointment, because we're not there yet. And you would say, well, look at the disparity. Here's Art speaking about the body of Christ and the church of the last days.
38:06 -  It's got to be this. But when I look around, I don't see such heroic stature in his own community. I had to anticipate that disillusionment, because it's true.
38:19 -  What would you do see is the cross-section of what is pleased God to give, and with whom and through whom we're ultimately going to succeed in being an end-time community or fail. It's not a selection made by me of those whom I could well choose and encourage to come on the basis of their already apparent qualification.
38:45 -  But it's the body that God has given of the weak, the immature, and people in every and varying condition. And if we'll not succeed in that, we'll not succeed. If the grace of God cannot move a people that he has appointed from faith to faith and from glory to glory,
39:06 -  then we're talking about some highfalutin egotism of selection that will not succeed. Even when you've picked your best team, we need to be joined with those with whom God would have us to be joined and work our way with them and through them to the thing that God desires.
39:26 -  So I'm so grateful that he makes this precious point and say it's worth the price of the book. Joe said, I just wanted to put that in there because he was saying he'd come here to hear you in a couple of days, and a couple of guys just got up and said, I'm coming here.
39:47 -  But you know, it's so beautiful because he was saying, I don't even know these guys. But I said, you know, that's the body of Christ. I was just, you know, he made that statement, of course he's gone now, but he was saying he had come here
40:02 -  to sort of hear you with more teaching and speaking. And a couple of days, he just pops up right out of the congregation. And it kind of just was funny to the point where I think he did say he made a statement to you all,
40:20 -  but in the end, he was vastly blessed because the feeling through which God had brought him to show him his heart and the blessings that had come through the variety of speakers and the issues that arose out of it, as for example, the prayer time with Paul,
40:42 -  which he himself cited in his testimony last night, proved blessing unspeakable for him. You see what I mean? That this is not a series of messages. This is a school of life, and that exceeds both the messages and the message.
40:55 -  It itself is a message, and that's what he was brought to see. There are just two sentences from Rick Jones. The two sentences that really struck me, one is, he often chooses the weak or slow,
41:15 -  so his perfect wisdom and power may be evident. And the other one was, because of the pride of man, the Lord often puts his treasures in that which is repulsive. Good.
41:26 -  Which goes along with that. Right. And if you're not that way to begin, he'll make you that way. Really. So this is good. So I read this.
41:38 -  The exclusion of the weak and insignificant that we think to be insignificant. And usually, out of the weak and the seemingly insignificant comes the deepest workings of God. I mentioned how I was saved out of a deception, not by the most mature members of the community,
41:56 -  from whom I would have expected the Word of God to come, but the weakest and the youngest. Remember that, Paul and Adrian, when we had lived in Kansas City for a short period, and God was doing something I wasn't even looking for.
42:09 -  Jews were knocking on my door. Jewish lawyers and professionals were getting saved. God was doing something spontaneously in the Jewish community.
42:18 -  And while all of that was developing, the people up here were saying, Art, it's time to come back. I said, oh my God, are they missing it?
42:25 -  Look what God is doing in Kansas City, the heart of the nation with the Jewish community there. And they want me to come back and twiddle my thumbs in the woods. Boy, are they ever missing it.
42:35 -  And we had a tension of, they're telling me to come back, and I'm saying, but look what God's doing. So finally it came to a showdown, and I flew up with two prestigious and mature Jewish brothers, and we were going to straighten the community out.
42:50 -  We had a community discussion. I reviewed with them how we came to Kansas City, how it was not seeking for ministry, how God Himself had spontaneously done it, and given every earmark of His approval and anointing.
43:01 -  And you want me to come back and do what? And I made my case. I was so proud of myself.
43:06 -  Well, that's it. You know, who's going to argue with that? And then some discussion went on, and we were not coming to any resolution.
43:14 -  And finally some pit squeak piped up, Dana, with his high-pitched, cracked voice, a Jewish brother, young in the faith, awkward, walking into walls, arms and knees. And he said, well, he said, Artie said, you know that we believe that the ministry flows out of the life
43:35 -  and the life out of the fellowship, and if you cut yourself off from the fellowship, Artie said, you'll have no life and no ministry. And boom, my head just dropped like that, for the Lord, my God, had spoken.
43:51 -  And it took only a matter of weeks before we packed up in Kansas City, and back we came. We heard the voice of the Lord from the youngest, weakest, high-pitched, cracked voice of a member of the community, but it was the Lord's voice.
44:04 -  You know what the Lord showed me? Don't think, hot shot, that you're incapable of deception. You may not be deceived because of the allure of fame or fortune,
44:13 -  but you can be deceived on the grounds of your spirituality, because you haven't gone through such exquisite leadings by my spirit and have been obedient and faithful and I have vindicated you.
44:24 -  Don't think that because of that track record that there cannot come a time when you yourself will miss it, even spiritually, because of the evidence of Jews being saved and knocking at your door and something spontaneously developing.
44:37 -  We've got to hear the Word of God. And it's the Word of God that can only come to us out of a brother whom we are related authentically and it may well be the most weak
44:51 -  and most unimpressive and insignificant among them. So we must be careful not to exclude, because we might be excluding Christ and the voice of the Lord that would have been our very saving provision.
45:07 -  And so the last thing that he takes up, very much in keeping with this, is about even seeking to exclude the things that are human, of desiring a kind of spirituality that has scant patience for that which is not spiritual,
45:24 -  that might be physical, mundane, ordinary and everyday. A purely spiritual relationship is not only dangerous, but altogether an abnormal thing. When physical and family relationships are ordinary associations,
45:40 -  those arising from everyday life, with all its claims, are not projected into the spiritual community, then we must be especially careful. Maybe Paul can elucidate a little bit on the heresy of the Gnostics,
45:56 -  G-N-O-S-T-I-C-S, who were so hyper-spiritual that they had contempt for things that were bodily or physical, as being somehow contrary to the spirit, and even exempted segments of scripture that spoke about base physical or practical things.
46:18 -  Kind of an ethereal spirituality that divorces itself in kind of a Greek idealism from earthly things. And that's a dangerous trap, and it's as dangerous as excluding those who are not like you, is to exclude from your experience the daily practical mundane thing
46:42 -  that is God's answer to the danger of an ethereal spirituality and brings us into the wholeness and truth of the faith that has both dimensions. And that is spiritual. The physical thing is spiritual.
47:00 -  The practical thing is spiritual. To establish a kind of category of our mind by which we exalt the one as spiritual and demean the other as practical or mundane is already to be on the road to deception.
47:15 -  And maybe that's one of the saving graces of going from the classroom to the field and to the buildings and to the haystack and to the woodpile. That practicality, that mundane necessity, the reality of that,
47:27 -  is a wonderful balance and tonic to the community life. So where is that psalm, behold, how good and pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity? Let's take a look at that in conclusion.
47:53 -  Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity, not saying what it takes to come to such a place that is not always pleasant, but must necessarily proceed it.
48:13 -  Unity is not cheap. It's not glib. It's not something that we can ordain or enforce or establish politically. It is the outworking of all of the trials and things that have been described this morning.
48:31 -  But once it's obtained and maintained, you need jealously to guard it. It's pleasant and good to dwell together in unity. That word dwell indicates that it's something more than a transient moment.
48:46 -  It's a consistent thing that requires remarkable investment to obtain. It is like the precious ointment upon the head that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron's beard that went down to the skirts of his garments.
49:03 -  As the dew of Hermon and as the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion, for there the Lord commanded the blessing, even life forevermore. Maybe one of our brothers will take up this text and give it to us as a preaching.
49:22 -  I think we need to hear that. But just for now, to really appreciate what the key for end-time anointing is and all of the remarkable hazard and demand and requirement of doing God's exploits in the last days,
49:41 -  the supreme anointing of God is the key. Such an unction that is not going to be the statement of our individual virtuosity or singular callings, but what we enjoy because of our relationship together that comes down upon the head of Aaron and down his beard
50:01 -  because it's the statement of dwelling together in unity. Here we come back again to we are so individualistically minded, so singular about our own calling and gift and ministry that we think that the anointing is relative to that.
50:18 -  When I'm utterly assured that the last day's anointing, which is the life of God and the power of God, is not so much the issue of our individual calling and gift, but the issue of our relatedness to the body that dwells together in unity.
50:34 -  That was true at the first and will be true again at the last. Great grace was upon them all. Grace is another word for gift, which was the presence of God's Spirit.
50:47 -  Because there was an oneness. They were a people tempered together. There was a oneness that was more than just charismatic congeniality
50:56 -  or a casual conglomerate of individualists who would come together for the purposes of service. God knows the difference. We have not known great grace.
51:07 -  It's reserved for all until we come to the oneness that is spoken of in this psalm of being together. Those that believe we're together is more than being alongside each other. It's suffering each other in our failures and our infirmities and our weaknesses and our humiliations and our failures.
51:31 -  It's an environment that is loving, that allows for failure and for error and does not condemn. That sees the weakness and the demerit of the brother, but rather than speak to him about Christ, it speaks to Christ about him in prayer.
51:50 -  God is putting all his eggs in this basket, if I can put it that way. He reserves his last day's anointing to be the expression of a people who dwell together in unity. There he has commanded the blessing, even life forevermore, and in no other place.
52:10 -  Great grace was upon them all, and with power gave the Apostles testimony of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. They would not have had enough power to inflate a balloon, let alone to penetrate the same Jewish community that had so recently crucified Christ,
52:29 -  had not those with whom they dwelled, dwelled together in unity. And these were Jews, mind you. Whereas we said the other day, two Jews have three arguments.
52:41 -  So individualistic, so opinionated, so cantankerous, so argumentative, my God. And yet they were together. There was an oneness that has not yet come to us, and will not come to us,
52:56 -  except we break through the stifling structures that have been historically ours, called the church, predicated upon Sunday service and Midweek Bible study. There's got to be a breaking through into the dimension of the life together daily.
53:14 -  Nothing less will achieve that dwelling together in unity. And what it means is a suffering that precedes a glory. To come to this unity is not some ecumenical design that's going to be established on a platform by the slight of men,
53:31 -  but the tempering together of a kind of which we ourselves have experienced and measured even in these days. So dear God has commanded the blessing, and in no other place, even life, forevermore. I'm jealous for that anointing.
53:50 -  We're going to need it so powerfully. We're going to be opposed so bitterly. Even those whom we seek to bless and to benefit will not rightly interpret that.
54:00 -  We will be seen as a threat to their Jewishness. The church will see us as mavericks. We're troubling Israel.
54:09 -  The prophetic thing is always misunderstood, always opposed. Only the anointing of God and the word that he sends in such an unctioned power can pierce through that whole thing to affect the work of God in the last days.
54:23 -  And the final and the last work of that word is the raising of a nation from the dead with a word that has got to be more than wishful thinking. But the power of the life of God himself that raises the dead,
54:37 -  brought out of the mouth of a son of man company, which company we can only be as those that dwell together in unity, community of God. For those who are willing for the price of it, nothing else will suffice.
54:52 -  This is not an option. It's not an alternative. It's the definitive desire of God from the first and must be again at the end. So let's pray at that point.
55:08 -  I'm reading Karl Bach's book on homiletics about preaching. And he says, good preaching does not require an invitation to make its point. Just leave the word of God with his people.
55:25 -  I'm not going to give you an invitation about who will commit themselves to the sacrifice of what it will require to obtain a church that is really truly church, a community of God's people who dwell together in unity.
55:41 -  I just leave the word stand. So let me just thank you, precious God. You gave your life for the church.
55:56 -  There's something more than Sunday institution, something more than that which is established for our benefit, but something calculated to reveal your glory through the fulfillment of your eternal purposes
56:10 -  in Christ Jesus through the church. And Lord, what you have called together here in this room are men and women who are called to be servants to the church,
56:24 -  to hold up the vision of the church to a people who least know it in the church and who would be satisfied with something much less so long as their own need is being met. And we know that we're going to be resisted by those who have satisfied themselves with convenience
56:45 -  and are unwilling, my God, for the investment, the sacrifice, the humiliation, the suffering before it's the glory of this thing to which you call us. So let your word, my God, find its lodging in our hearts.
57:04 -  May we be jealous for the fulfillment of it. And wherever my brothers and sisters have come from different parts of the world, distant places or close, may they become, my God, so divinely discontent
57:19 -  with things as they are that they can never again be comfortable in that which is only a similitude of what you're after. But be inflamed with the divine jealousy of church as church,
57:34 -  which alone can reveal your glory.