Community and Life Together 1 of 4

00:00 -  Since praise God's grace from the bottom of his heart, I'll tell you that I rankle, I don't know what the word is, when I hear anybody say something about how lousy the ten years of the Ben Israel history was and what a terrible time and
00:19 -  blah blah blah, yeah we had terrible times, but if that's your assessment, pity you. It was a privilege, the lousy times and the good times, and I believe that the lousy were equally as much from God's hand as the good and intended for
00:35 -  our instruction and our growth. To deprecate that experience and to condemn it is to condemn the God who gave it. We need to respect and deeply reverence the privilege of living together. Now we were a bunch of ignoramuses, we didn't know
00:52 -  which end was up and maybe our saving grace was our ignorance, that we didn't come with some colossal plan or strategy of how to do it. We bumbled our way through and the way that our day began was invariably the prayer meeting, that
01:07 -  two-hour session in Mombrogus trailer that no one directed or guided, no overhead projector, no song service and just sitting there sometimes in the most painful awkward silence that anyone can imagine and waiting for the spirit
01:22 -  of God, sometimes waiting too long and terrible tension of breaking that silence with some foolish thing that doesn't even sound relevant. But I can tell you that I'm a witness to some of the most glorious transcendent
01:39 -  experiences that I have ever known in 28 years that began in the painful awkward silence of what I'm now describing, by people who puffed it out in a circle face to face, not with their Sunday face but with their Monday face, waiting on
01:56 -  the Lord together. I can remember on one occasion Shelley saying something that you heard on the radio that morning or I thought, my Lord what has that got to do with anything? It doesn't even sound spiritual. But before those two hours
02:11 -  were up or two and a half hours, by the way it never ended according to the clock, it ended when we felt the Lord had finished and released us. That before that time ended, God took that first remark and coupled it with a scripture
02:23 -  that had been quoted and a dream that someone had had or some insight from the scripture or some reflection of a past experience and brought together such a composite thing that when we left we didn't walk out, we floated out, that God
02:39 -  had met us and dealt with us and something of a remarkable kind had taken place. I don't want to, it's not all like that on every occasion. Sometimes we did walk out and there are other times when we stopped breathing, when things were
02:54 -  taken by God in His hand and dealt with that we thought surely we'll never survive this. This is the end of everything. This is too tense. This confrontation, we're finished and then to begin something like that. I don't
03:13 -  know if I should even describe the thing that I have in mind now because it had to do with the wife of one of our elders, a highly spiritual woman who is making her spiritual statements right and left through and you know we're
03:26 -  often irritated and chafed by them. Sometimes they were on, sometimes they were off, but on this particular morning there was something about that final remark that was so off that something so stabbed my spirit that I said that's a
03:40 -  bunch of, something like that. It was virtually rude and people just staggered and choked and spluttered like you don't say that. You know the remark and then I went on by the Holy Ghost and the Lord just bore in and then there was a
03:57 -  silence. People were not only looking at the wife but they were looking at the husband of the wife who was coelder with me in that community and when he spoke up in all he did, he verified and confirmed all that I had been saying but
04:11 -  he did it in his own unique way. He's not the confrontationist that I am but out of the scripture and out of his precious way, much more soft than I, he did not in any way hedge or move away from the truth that God was now fingering and he spoke
04:26 -  his peace and then the third elder finally entered and he brought that thing to a climax and God brought us through something. It was like a rending of the veil, a stripping of deception and something that had been going on as a
04:40 -  leaven in the community that had it gone on unchecked. That might have been a virtual destruction. It needed somehow in a moment of time to be ruthlessly dealt with and I could just remember the release. There was such just a freedom
04:55 -  afterwards. It's like a terrible abscess or a boil you know that that you can't bear and when that thing finally breaks and all of the corruption finally spurts out and that's the kind of heave and sorry to leave so we can multiply the
05:10 -  illustrations. Not trying to scare you and I'm not trying to seduce you into some romantic notion of the joys unspeakable of life together. There are both but if you're not willing for the holding of your breath and the thinking
05:25 -  that this is the end and the unspeakable agony of coming into a place of confrontation knowing that it awaits you and who has the courage to say the first word then you're not going to be recipients of the glory either. Let him
05:40 -  thank God on his knees and declare it is a grace nothing but grace that we are allowed to live in community. Imagine how he speaks of it as privilege with Christian Brethren.
05:55 -  It's not a social experiment. I know that there are secular and utopian models but that's not anything like what we're talking about. This is the community of God's people in Christ. He's the Lord. He's the center of all. He's the one who
06:23 -  mediates the life. It's the law of his kingdom and I think I said here one night I'm one of our Friday night Shabbats in some thought and memory of our earlier time. When we first started I thought naively to introduce a certain
06:38 -  Jewish quotient into the community life that on the Friday night Shabbat we would have candles lit, chicken soup and monster balls and all of the other things that are traditional and lovely. I don't think the Lord the Lord let us
06:51 -  get through it one Friday night and that was the last time. He clearly wrapped our knuckles and said however nice that is culturally it's not the culture of my kingdom. I'm calling you to some transcendent culture and you'll not have
07:07 -  it if you insist on your own. So you know how painful it is to part with the thing that's familiar and then to walk with a great tentativeness on the next Shabbat not knowing how to perform it and what God's alternative will be and you're
07:21 -  not going to find it in one fell swoop but over a process of time and that's not only the issue of your culture it's the issue of your economy it's the issue of your government. He's king and his lordship is pervasive overall and he
07:35 -  doesn't set it down as a as a body of rules from the beginning but he gives it to you in the walking out and there's missing it and failing and there's nothing messier than community. It's not a model for efficiency and if that's
07:51 -  what you want you'll need rules and regulations to enforce it. But we were so naive we thought that everybody would be led by the spirit. That the spirit would signal this one and that it's time for you to do the dishes. It's time for you
08:04 -  to carry out the garbage. You know we found out the garbage was never carried out and the dishes were never washed. That people were not in that place by the spirit. It was naive to think or to expect that. We ourselves were not in
08:18 -  that place. So we're in that tension of needing to have some order some coherence some regularity and yet not to enforce it or to require it because then what would we have? Automatons who were doing their numbers
08:33 -  according to the rules? It's that terrible tension of suffering the inconvenience and the mess waiting for the Saints to come grow up to the place of maturing responsibility while yet resisting the temptation to have a
08:49 -  measure of order by imposition. It's a tension. Now here's where Dietrich Bonhoeffer really gets juicy. There's nothing that he loves more than to insert the scalpel and to dismember romantic illusion and
09:12 -  fantasy. And there's something about community that lends itself either to a total rejection and fear of a kind of Jim Jones situation of men who are heretical or the anointed charismatic leader who finally leaves the whole
09:31 -  people to their doom or some romantic illusion of tripping off in fairyland out in the rustic wilds. Both of these are terrible distortions so he talks about dismissing once and for all every clamorous desire for something more. One
09:51 -  who wants more than what Christ has established does not want Christian Brotherhood. This is a beautiful Bonhoeffian statement. This is like Oswald Chambers. You know Chambers has such a way of saying something. This
10:07 -  is distinctively Bonhoeffer. One who wants more than what Christ has established does not want Christian Brotherhood. If you're looking for something more, if there's a quotient of selfishness, romantic idealization of
10:26 -  what community is going to confer for you, you're already a goner. But just to enjoy and to appreciate Christian Brotherhood with its failures, with its inconveniences, with its wastefulness, with its disorders while you're in the
10:45 -  process of growing up together is a much more realistic view. Such a one who wants the much more brings, he writes, a muddled and impure desire into Christian Brotherhood. Christian Brotherhood is threatened most often at the very point
11:05 -  by the greatest danger of all, the danger of being poisoned at its root, the danger of confusing Christian Brotherhood with some wishful idea of religious fellowship, of confounding the natural desire of the devout heart for
11:19 -  community with the spiritual reality of Christian Brotherhood. There's an ideal and there's a reality. And the poison is injected when someone comes to community on the basis of ideal rather than on the basis of reality. If he seeks anything
11:36 -  more than Christian Brotherhood, and that more is the projection of his own imagining, his own romantic hope, he introduces a poison into the whole corporate lump. In Christian Brotherhood, everything depends on its being
11:54 -  clear right from the beginning that it is not an ideal but a divine reality. In innumerable times, a whole Christian community has broken down because it had sprung from a wish dream. I'm waiting for somebody to get the prize for the day by
12:18 -  making a remark that immediately springs to mind when we hear this. It sounds so much like the reason for which marriages fail exactly. Broken down because it has sprung from a wish dream. Some romantic idealization of what the
12:39 -  marriage is going to be or what the community is going to be. Unprepared for the reality of stale breath under on the odor odors and failure and collapse and and your husband sleeping with his mouth agape. You know, the wife with her
13:02 -  corset loose. I mean the body, you know, in all of its realities that somehow we don't see in the romantic courtship stage. But no sooner does the truth of living together set in than we do see it. And if we're not prepared for that
13:17 -  seeing and had some other imagining some wishful seeing in mind, the seeds of destruction have begun. The serious Christian entering community is likely to bring with him a very definite idea of what Christian life together should be
13:38 -  and tries to realize it. But God's grace speedily shatters such dreams. You see what I love, Bonhoeffer? It's God's grace that shatters such dreams. And I said somewhere in these days disillusionment is a grace. Painful but a grace. Who wants
13:59 -  to go on with illusions? And the only way to be disillusioned is unhappily a painful way. But far more painful and far more disastrous than to continue an illusion that is unreal and finally one day must reveal itself as false. And
14:18 -  probably one of the first things that believers experience in community and has been experienced already in these weeks to the degree that we are community is disillusionment. One thing to see the man of God at the pulpit, another to see
14:34 -  him in the everyday context of his life, when he's not under that unction and under that anointing. Can you bear it? Remember that Jesus's disciples lived with him for three and a half
14:49 -  years and they saw him asleep and snoring with his mouth open or having to excuse himself because he had to defecate or urinate. I think some of us are so romantic that we don't think that God's men of faith and power have such
15:05 -  need. But let me assure you the church is the ground and pillar of truth. If it's not that, it's not the church. And truth has got to be so unsparing, so total, we cannot allow the latitude of any illusion, any romanticism, any idealism. In fact
15:39 -  what idealism is in its last analysis is the last hiding place of humanism. To have an ideal is yet to be humanistic. And if God has calculated any place where those things are to be brought to death, it's community. If community served no other
16:03 -  purpose than that, it would be purpose enough, but there's more purpose than that, but this is fundamental and begins from the beginning. I can't recall one soul who ever came to us and saw it through, who did not become dismembered or
16:25 -  what's the word when you pull the woolen thing, unraveled. I'm sure that pollinators remember some of the most precious saints. You know, just like this school, the people that came here to northern Minnesota were not your
16:40 -  faint-hearted believers who were looking for novelty. We tried to screen that kind out and the Lord saw to it that we were not located in Palm Beach, so that even the physical factor was itself a screening. And then we prayed
16:56 -  much and weighed every applicant and sought to know something of their backgrounds and whether they were being commended by the elders of the fellowships where they then were and did everything. And so what we got was
17:07 -  generally speaking, families and believers who were of a more mature kind. Substantial, already had histories in God, but you want to know? Without exception, whatever they were, heads and shoulders above their charismatic
17:21 -  counterparts, every single one of them came unraveled. For some it took two weeks, six weeks, a month, three days. The periods may have varied, but it was only a matter of time before we knew that they would come apart at the seams. One
17:38 -  of the classic illustrations, maybe Adrian has another, is a Japanese girl that we called Sunshine. She was the epitome of that saint who has it together. I mean, she was like herself. She was the most constant temperament and always sang
17:56 -  wine and happy. But she came to such a place where I wasn't there when it happened, but according to the description, she threw her shoe at Inger or slammed the door and shouted. I mean, it just came apart. I remembered Jim the
18:11 -  electrician, remember? That guy was the epitome of the complete saint and we watched that man just come completely apart before God put him together again in a much more authentic way. And to watch a man come apart in your midst, to
18:26 -  see this and to smell the stink of it, is not pleasant. Will you bear it for another as another will bear it for you? That's community. Bearing the pain of even watching the dismemberment or the unraveling of a brother or a sister,
18:46 -  knowing that not only are you not to falsely comfort them, but you're not to intervene to interrupt the process of God. But to see it have its full work and bear it, bear the stink of it while you're alongside the suffering
19:04 -  member. Because the time is not long when someone will have to be alongside you. See, where does that exist in in conventional Christendom? Where we put our best foot forward and we wear our Sunday faces and enjoy a kind of piety
19:23 -  that is not tested. And I'm saying all this to say that if this is not the configuration of God's remnant people in the last days, I don't know how they're going to stand. How should we face the full brunt of the world and the powers
19:46 -  of darkness who have come down into the world, who know that their time is short? How does that fit to go, Reggie? Knowing that their time is short, they what? See what you have to suffer. But he comes down with a wrath, isn't that true?
20:14 -  A wrath or a fury, knowing that his time is short. It's not going to be a playground. It's going to be a battleground. And if we come apart among ourselves, if we can't take a look of indifference or we think a seeming rejection or a word
20:38 -  that has hurt us and with tender and protective little egotisms under an outward impression of spirituality, how are we going to take that fiery and final confrontation? You understand what I'm saying? If we come apart with each other because someone didn't honor me
20:58 -  or they ignored me or we thought we were being ignored and we're so touchy and hypersensitive and how are we going to make it in that final day when the wrath of the powers of darkness who know that their time is short is being ventilated against the saints? It's God's
21:17 -  provision. It's end-time provision. And it's not that we're malicious. I need to say this. I don't know that maybe with a rare exception that anyone in the Benioz world history was out to do in another saint. That he sought maliciously to incur evil. But you know that
21:37 -  even in our best and well-meaning intentions, inadvertently and in the heat of the moment or the passion of the moment, we are to each other a pain. Well I had a household and I had a man that the odds of the church sent to live with me
21:57 -  and my custom had been to get up every morning about 5.30 or 6 and just have a coffee and read my scriptures. And the very first morning that I did that after the man had moved in, I saw him coming up the side wall. Just at the time I was sitting down to do my Bible study
22:15 -  and I realized I was getting angry. I mean he just rose up in me and immediately I recognized I have a problem. I mean it's just that simple act and I realized like he said I was in trouble but there was going to be a lot of changes going to be required of me not because they were doing
22:29 -  anything malicious but just ordinary just being together. He just wanted to be with me. I thought he was a good movie but I realized I didn't want to be with him. Not at that time. Privacy is an unspoken sacrosanct privilege that we all have been
22:49 -  encouraged to think that we enjoy as matter of fact. And when our privacy is invaded, so someone needs to examine privacy and understand what that means and what that implies and why it is when that's violated. We become so rattled because your privacy is going to be
23:13 -  invaded. It's not to say that we had distinct families and separate households and with their own kitchens. Nevertheless, you never know when someone's going to walk in or as Wynn just described or some requirement. In fact one of the great tensions was how much belongs to the family and
23:32 -  how much to the community in time and how much do we enjoy ourselves apart from the community and how much do we give ourselves to the purposes of community. And that was not stated. It's not some written credo. It's something that needs to be worked out in the wash. We profoundly desired
23:52 -  the autonomy of families and that fathers should be the heads and that there should be the integrity of family. But family can be an enclave of selfishness. Some of the deepest forms of selfishness have been hidden under the supposed sanctity of family
24:10 -  and of children. Well I can't come to the meeting because my children, how much has that been used as an excuse for people who are just not wanting and are in their flesh and employ the sanctity of children, family, and other values as a cover by which to hide. So you have those tensions also.
24:31 -  So he talks about disillusionment. We must be overwhelmed by a great disillusionment with others, with Christians in general, and if we are fortunate with ourselves. The disillusionment is not just with the other. In the last analysis it's with ourself. It's what Wynn just described,
24:57 -  recognizing things about yourself and in yourself that you would not otherwise have been required to experience and to see. Arthur Byrd, a beautiful English Christian man, he came to our church at home and he said living with others is just as hard for the others.
25:21 -  That's good, good. Only the fellowship which faces such disillusionment with all its unhappy and ugly aspects begins to be what it should be in God's sight. If you're unwilling for that pain, which is really
25:39 -  a suffering, which is really the cross, we're not going to be what we should be in God's sight. The sooner this shack of disillusionment comes to an individual and to a community,
25:56 -  the better for both. A community which cannot bear and cannot survive such a crisis, which insists upon keeping its illusion when it should be shattered permanently, loses in that moment the promise of Christian community. Did you get that? You cannot bear it,
26:16 -  you cannot survive it, and you know it's touch and go. I'm sure that more than one community has gone up in a puff because they could not survive the disillusionment. They were unprepared for it and when it came it took them by surprise and they thought that that was the end and it
26:33 -  became the end. They wanted to hold their illusions when God was intending that these illusions be shattered permanently and they lost in that moment the promise of Christian community. Every human wish dream that is injected into the Christian community is a hindrance to genuine
26:54 -  community and we're all dreamers, we're all idealists, we're all romanticists to one degree or another. We bring some wishful fantasy into what we think it ought to be and if it's not that we're disillusioned with others and then ultimately with ourselves.
27:16 -  He who loves his dream of community more than the community itself becomes a destroyer of the latter even though his intentions may ever be so sacrificial and honest. God hates visionary dreaming. It makes the dreamer proud and pretentious.
27:36 -  Awake thou who sleepest, awake thou who dreamest. As I said, idealism or romanticism is the last refuge of humanism. It's man elaborating out of his own imagining of something as he thinks it ought to be
27:57 -  rather than in the reality of what God intends it should. Everyone hear the question? Is there a place for romanticism and to be romantic particularly in marriage?
28:32 -  that the average young couple needs what was involved in terms of a suffering and the giving you know when the first child comes people get out there take care of in the middle of the night you know you knew all of that all the sickness you know all the party how many people would
28:49 -  enter into marriage if there weren't the romance to go I didn't romantic the Christian life that God's romantic is into it and then of course where else can we go but once in something else so anyway for me romance is romantic is unreality okay when the romantic movement for example
29:12 -  romantic movements they are yeah you just break away from formalism from the rules of art they had been after then and it was a spring element that went beyond the formal boundaries at the time and I see it as
29:33 -  helpful I hope I don't see romanticism as an absolute no no I see it as a help to leap over some of the sort of formal ideas we have in our minds and to jump over the wall and be beyond it's that I feel is liberating to be taken through you know like anything else
29:53 -  too far okay Fred yeah the found the foundation of community commitment the romance is is
30:09 -  the building the architecture but the community depends upon the ways the varying ways of the romance I'm okay then I think the problem is our definition of romance
30:26 -  oh leave it to the greyheads and I think the illustrations that we've given are accurate in other words it is our romance with christ that draws us into it but what is our romance our romance is
30:44 -  God has saved me and I have a commitment to serve him and to lay down my life for him and that's what draws me into this this romance it's not like we take the word romance I don't think that's my understanding and a marriage is the same way if I had that kind of romance that what God
31:01 -  is putting into a marriage is it's one of certain and to lift one another up and to help each other develop into a relationship that is a blossoming thing and a growing thing all the time then I think that's a proper word for romance so what we're using with romance is given a white flower
31:22 -  given a candy giving things that are attached to the world's definition of romance and I think that's to me is what a big difference is I believe there is a romantic element of community but it's a challenge and somebody I heard a piece in one time that if you think about
31:41 -  men who in the past times talked about war being a romantic thing because it was we're going out to give our lives for this this our country it was a an excitement and you know you reach out the writings of the over the last hundred years or so there was excitement about
31:57 -  people going to war and being involved in that and that if you have that romantic idea of that community for God then that's fine but if you've got the other the shallow one that I think you're in a lot of terms of an expression of respect
32:12 -  okay I think I was reminded last night I felt so overwhelmed with
32:30 -  love and appreciation and I don't think that's the only thing that I think that is that that and I think we're in trouble and it was a big part and the same thing that he is and I think I think that has to do
32:56 -  with the God of the organization of love you know what it is like you know I said here and you know I mean I can't even put it into words except that that we will want and we're what we're sharing the same spirit we're going to be cutting together we're being
33:16 -  something together and just that excitement and I think that I think that as long as that reason is there there is something that widens up inside and you're getting that excitement and it should be there and I think when they lose that it becomes that line and that is I don't think that
33:32 -  that's not romance in the sense that you know and I find that a romantic moment I find it and he's breaking the wall he's breaking the you know the things that everybody's used to and and he's he's just so much enjoyed
33:58 -  it you're using the word romance in a very particular sense by which it is not commonly understood it's usually commonly understood to mean some gilding over the harsh realities some fanciful exercise that that disguises the reality rather than reveals it
34:22 -  aging was talking about the delight and joy that came from the reality so this is really a critical exercise to understand what we're saying and getting at one of the reasons why I am deadly an enemy of romanticism in literature and in art and in culture is that this was the wellspring of
34:40 -  nazism itself which grew out of a disillusionment with bourgeois middle-class civilization and deadly lutheranism church state religion that did not answer to the deepest heart cry of men for full life full or life and finally found its expression in a master race but the origin of that
35:06 -  the wellspring was a romanticism that reacted against a dry as dust business civilization that had reduced even its religion to that but instead of dealing with it on the basis of reality which is to say God to be found through repentance it rejected that and began to embrace
35:28 -  olympian themes of master men with superpowers and occultic and divinations and and that kind of thing over the world over the cosmos rulers you know whose spirit that is but it grew out of a romantic alternative to a dry and spirit less civilization the answer to the spirit less
35:48 -  civilization was the spirit of God but they were they sought a romantic alternative that eventuated in massive death for millions and almost the destruction of civilization so this issue of romance and what is it or romanticism needs really to be really critiqued and who
36:10 -  should be more apt at critiquing than God's own people in fact what we're doing right now is theology in my opinion at its best and what else to what can this be compared to what to what the people in the world give themselves in a corporate give-and-take like this for the
36:32 -  ferreting out of something for the opening up of something for the bringing of the light of God to something and what we are now about this is an exercise that will expand us give us an illumination for our own life and bring this into the realm of the reality that God is seeking because the
36:50 -  church is the ground into truth so i'm just making an aside here this critiquing is good and it's been too rare and it needs to be restored to the church instead of a bunch of dulled passive sunday morning congregants looking up at the platform waiting for something some kind of
37:09 -  spiritual roulette to catch their fancy God's people need to be required of to be given opportunity to interject themselves and to search their own hearts and and burrow into something and see it in the light of scripture out of their experience come to a definition this this is the
37:25 -  church so i'll just say that as we're in passing historically basically the same ideas of the beginning of
37:51 -  and what they're going to start your mind the stuff of your thoughts and what you decided you were wondering and that's the truth rather than reality and it's not new coincidence to go to see what happens in philosophy and what happens in our
38:09 -  of very much the kind of philosophy that threw out of that defense idealism that's what i think any idealism is a better word to focus on the projection of our own
38:32 -  notion and ideas and living by them and working them out that community is an ideal or an idea that i have and the these ideas that are important rather than if something offered up
38:52 -  it's not fair to say not to be begun because there's an ideal that you want to see fulfilled but simply to be begun by beginning without pretense without wide-eyed notions of what you think it to be you begin
39:12 -  by beginning but you don't come to see the fulfillment of a design or a vision or a dream of what you think it ought to be that's the projection of your own fancy let God make it into his own image as much as he do is doing us and in fact haven't we been the greatest enemies
39:33 -  of that fulfillment by living in a romanticized or idealized version of what we think we ought to be spiritually how much is there at i was just praying about the other day i said look i don't like what i'm sensing happening to me in these days in these weeks i'm becoming the master of
39:48 -  ceremonies i don't like standing up and calling the people to order and and making some introductory remarks and introducing the speaker it's not me you know someone's got to do it but i'm fearful lest i lose my integrity and and move into something unconsciously day by day of a professional
40:06 -  smooth kind so many of us are doing that about what we fancy spirituality to be or what it means to be a minister or a prophet a prophet who's got to be this another men that have girded themselves with sackcloth literally and have walked around the city of Jerusalem
40:28 -  calling the city and the nation to repentance and felt that they were doing God's service i mean it was a grotesque a self-appointed parody that God had never called i think in the day that God calls it might be a man with a three-piece business suit speaking the word of God and not
40:46 -  some long-haired flowing creep who thinks he's doing God's service because that's his romantic vision of how he thinks a prophet what to appear and what to sound so to one degree or another we need to be very jealous over this and say lord not for me to come to the fulfillment of my image
41:06 -  of what i think spirituality is or my calling is but yours and the same thing with with marriage the same thing with community not my image of it yours and it may well be that his image for each of us is unique to ourselves and the thing that most offends against it and deters it from
41:27 -  fulfillment is our insistence on our image right and just as an aside the person who has an additional burden in this area would be a black believer because of the great pressure to find acceptance and recognition in a culture that comes from
41:51 -  the other and to find that almost involuntarily it affects your speech your mannerism you want to avoid negro isms and that kind of thing you know what i mean and come into their image of acceptance for such a one it's tougher but may God give us such a heart for truth
42:11 -  and for authenticity and to be in his image for that is the enrichment and the thing that glorifies so we just need to realize that there's something to be struggled for would be better if we had to live without conclusion
42:44 -  no that's the five weeks we go home but you know i used to say about community and i speak in churches i know that poor negative heard me say this a thousand times they're suffering for this i would say you know the only i would say to the congregation charismatic whatever it is
42:58 -  the only difference between you and us is that when this service is over you go home when our services are over we are home in other words we have to live with the result of what God has spoken we're still together each day seeing the walking out of it yes this is a little
43:15 -  experience in community what would make it all the more valid and authenticated is if we had to live with the result of our discussion but that could give us a flavor yeah very good when you're in the middle of a community and somebody says something and you don't agree with them yep no actually
43:30 -  see those things coming up in you and you realize well that's an unGodly thing i feel and you know what am i going to do that right i'm going to deny this question or am i going to you know what how do you okay atrium
43:42 -  okay but i think that there are having emotion
44:29 -  what is it one thing i'm sure that God is you know it was really interesting when you're sitting in a circle talking about the things of God and then somebody say let's call me in for this and if you like that
44:50 -  i just feel like that um oh i mean we have ways of that really and
45:03 -  there's a great one but
45:09 -  that's especially strongly
45:15 -  number personality and
45:21 -  or or something
45:27 -  other I I
45:33 -  I I I
45:39 -  I I I
45:45 -  I I I
45:51 -  I Never I
45:57 -  I I I
46:03 -  I I I
46:09 -  I I I
46:15 -  I I I
46:23 -  I I I
46:29 -  I I I
46:35 -  I I I
46:41 -  I I I
46:49 -  I I I
46:55 -  I I I
47:01 -  I I I
47:07 -  I I I
47:13 -  I I I
47:21 -  I I I
47:27 -  I I I
47:33 -  I I I
47:41 -  I I I
47:47 -  I I I
47:53 -  I I I
47:59 -  I I I
48:07 -  I I I
48:13 -  I I I
48:19 -  I I I
48:25 -  I I I
48:31 -  I I I
48:39 -  I I I
48:45 -  I I I
48:53 -  I I I
48:59 -  I I I
49:05 -  I I I
49:11 -  I I I
49:17 -  I I I
49:23 -  I I I
49:31 -  I I I
49:37 -  I I I
49:43 -  I I I
49:49 -  I I I
49:55 -  I I I
50:03 -  I I I
50:09 -  I I I
50:15 -  I I I
50:21 -  I I I
50:27 -  I I I
50:33 -  I I I
50:39 -  I I I
50:45 -  I I I
50:53 -  I I I
50:59 -  I I I
51:05 -  I I I
51:11 -  I I I
51:17 -  I I I
51:25 -  I I I
51:31 -  I I I
51:37 -  I I I
51:43 -  I I I
51:51 -  I I I
51:57 -  I I I
52:03 -  I I I
52:09 -  I I I
52:15 -  I I I
52:21 -  I I I
52:27 -  I I I
52:33 -  I I I
52:39 -  I I I
52:47 -  I I I
52:53 -  I I I
52:59 -  I I I
53:05 -  I I I
53:11 -  I I I
53:19 -  I I I
53:25 -  I I I
53:31 -  I I I
53:39 -  I I I
53:45 -  I I I
53:51 -  I I I
53:57 -  I I I
54:03 -  I I I
54:11 -  I I I
54:17 -  I I I
54:23 -  I I I
54:29 -  I I I
54:35 -  I I I