Grace and the Election of Israel 3 of 3

00:00 -  Let's have some prayer for the Church in its present condition and state. We will not have mercy for it, how shall we have mercy for Israel? How different, how far removed is the condition of the Church from Israel's condition?
00:20 -  And if we shall identify with the one, shall we not identify with the other? And does the identification of the Church first, in its present condition, make it a necessary preliminary to identification with Israel?
00:35 -  If we're too contentious and disdainful for the Church, it's not sufficiently spiritual, it's carnal, it's programs, we want to scorn it and reject it. How shall we have a magnanimity and grace for Israel?
00:49 -  So we've got time, let's raise a prayer. It could be your own congregation, Church of your community. I feel especially stirred for our brother Lloyd, his fellowship in Hawaii
01:03 -  and the movement out of which his own Church has come. Thank you, Lord. I feel very clear about this morning's direction to continue with Reggie's paper
01:17 -  and see that conclusion, maybe even reviewing some of it, rich as it is. And so Lord, we ask your blessing again that you will really sift this for us, that nothing will fall to the ground, my God, that we won't be cavalier in rushing through something
01:39 -  that you want us to weigh and to deliberate and take into our deepest consideration. And so we thank you for the privilege of this choice paper, my God, this comprehensive overview of this mystery so lost to the Church and needing so to be restored.
01:56 -  Bless us this morning in it, my God, and oversee us in the great Lordship to bring forth those choice comments and questions that open the subject yet more deeply and restrain those comments, my God, that will add nothing but only interrupt the flow.
02:16 -  So in between, the twist in between, the traditional tension of interacting over your word. Guide us even by your eye, Lord. And we thank and praise you again for this privilege, which is ours.
02:33 -  Bless the recording that many might receive the benefit who cannot be here bodily and receive our gratitude for that privilege now in Yeshua's holy name. Amen. I think we ended yesterday morning with the issue of Israel's ethnicity,
02:53 -  why God is insistent that this nation be recognized, be recognizable in the fulfillment of his redemptive purpose. The elect nation or else he's robbed of his glory. So just to touch that again and go over some of the things that we considered.
03:16 -  A remarkable statement that Reggie makes about that. Why is it that if the world of partition is dissolved and the Church is now comprised of an election out of every nation, why does this not sufficiently realize and fulfill the covenant that promises now revealed in the gospel?
03:36 -  Why, if the promise was never to the children of the flesh as such, but only to the remnant of election and promise, must it be a reinstatement of the natural branches in order to fulfill the provisions of the promise and covenant?
03:52 -  Why must Jews as Jews, the physical descendants of Abraham, be restored to the land? All of this stubborn particularity of God. This people, this land, this city, this place, this holy city, this hill of Zion,
04:13 -  with all of the contrary mentality that God is not interested in real estate. This is that famous scandal of specificity that God has elected and chosen and designated and identified by a name. Jews, Israel, the land.
04:30 -  And we mustn't allow ourselves to be dissuaded away from that. So there is a remnant of natural Jews in the Church. Paul and I and Adrian would be examples.
04:42 -  There are many and increasing in number. But that is not the issue of Israel in its nationhood. What we as Jews are as a remnant that are in the body is not a statement or reflection of another issue that is Israel in its nationality.
05:04 -  Reggie speaks of it as the pledge of a prescribed covenant. We Jewish believers are a reminder and a pledge of a yet greater fulfillment. We're a remnant of a yet whole people, a nation that God is calling to himself.
05:20 -  All Israel must be saved. All Israel will be saved. I think only just to add all surviving Israel, because we know that there's going to be a very great attrition in this last day's chastisement and dealing with the nation through the nations.
05:42 -  That the whole Israel is going to be a reduced number because he says, I will. Those who were rebels who transgress against me, which I think would constitute the majority of Jews today and who choose to remain rebels,
06:02 -  I will bring them out of the lands in which they have sojourned, but I will not bring them into the land. Somewhere between their expulsion and the reestablishment of the nation in the land. These people will not make it. They're the casualties.
06:20 -  And they are a great number. The thing is that we will not be able to distinguish those that are the rebels who will not be restored to the land and those who may at the moment be chomping at the bit and expressing themselves in a way that is rebellious and is intransigent
06:41 -  and is opposed to the word may well be the elect. We can't tell at an initial contact with Jews in their untoward condition who will be a surviving remnant and who will be among those who will be lost. So requires a grace from us.
07:03 -  And all that God will bring before us in the time of their last extremities, the time of Jacob's trouble. So Reggie asks, what further significance can possibly attach to ethnic distinctions? Superficiality here stems from superficiality at a more fundamental level.
07:30 -  If the primary goal of the gospel is only to make salvation universally available, why take such a circuit as well? Why does God have to go through all of this sifting? This fails to understand why Israel was chosen in the first place and why the preservation of Israel,
07:47 -  Israel's natural distinction is an intrinsic feature of the covenant of promise. And ultimately strategic to the future of divine purpose and glory. So we talked about that yesterday.
08:00 -  We would rob God of his glory if there was not an identifiable people who are redeemed with whom he has made covenant. If that people are nameless and part of the God's general redemptive purpose, then where's the honoring of the covenant with Abraham?
08:23 -  That has come down. The mosaic, the vidic, everlasting. If it cannot be found with this people with whom God has covenanted from the first, they have to be identified. And therefore the preservation as a distinct nation is critical.
08:52 -  Now we're on pages that we've not considered about the ignorance of this redemptive scheme of God, the mystery of the ages, the distinctive role of Israel and the Gentiles in creation and history, a strategic dialectic maintained for which judgment and salvation is mediated to the glory of the free sovereignty of grace and election.
09:21 -  Here's the statement I'd like to close out. Such a view while seeming to grant Israel a token acknowledgement, misses utterly the wisdom and strategy of the divine purpose.
09:31 -  And not only this, but the cost and solemnity of the divine investment required. I have never heard a statement like that. It's uniquely Killian.
09:47 -  The cost and solemnity of the divine investment required. So I want to pause over that. To lose the particularity of Israel and the dealings of God with that nation and the final sifting,
10:06 -  But the church that can condescend to be indifferent to the issue of Israel and the Jew loses also the sense of the cost and solemnity of the divine investment required. There's a suffering, there's a prevail. This is a sifted people.
10:28 -  This is a people with a long history of sin, judgment, expulsion, exile, return, and yet one final reenactment of that great pattern. This is not cheap. And if we're not aware of it, we lose something of the sense of the cost.
10:49 -  And there's a solemnity, like Reggie's words, a deep seriousness of how far God will go. And what will he require? And what of the people for whom this requirement has been made?
11:07 -  Not as if they are innocent and that somehow they're only being used as an object in the fulfillment of God's purpose. Their calamity is in every way deserved and is an exact proportion to their sin. It's not some arbitrary judgment on God's part.
11:27 -  It's just and deserved. But still, there's a suffering, there's a prevail, there's an anguish. There are dealings with this nation that Jews have said, we choose not to be chosen.
11:41 -  Look what has been for us. So what Reggie is pointing at, if we lose this sense of mystery and of the dealing with this particular people that has to be requited by their particular redemption at the end of the age, as this nation,
11:57 -  we lose the sense of the cost and the solemnity that should attend it. And I believe that this has everything to do with the likeness that's to be found in the Church today. I don't want to attribute every defect in the Church to the omission of Israel, but I think there's a conjunction here.
12:16 -  This is a solemnity. This would temper us. This would bring a note of something into our consideration, into our very atmosphere, to be aware of the cost of God's great redemptive saga in life, in people and in a nation.
12:35 -  So to dismiss Israel is to lose that prospect of the Church, which I think is a benevolent and precious thing intended by God for us. It's another aspect of how much the Church suffers in its willful or otherwise ignorance
12:54 -  of the centrality of Israel and the purposes of God. It takes from us a dimension that would have tempered us, that would have answered and had been an alternative to our present likeness and matter-of-factness
13:09 -  if we had a sense of the solemnity, the cost, the sacrifice of this great redemptive drama as it impinges on this particular people and nation. I've never heard anyone ever think of that, but Reggie, and that of course,
13:28 -  the cost in solemnity means the Holocaust of the Nazi time, the destruction of the temple twice, the blood up to the bridles of the horses, how many millions or a million were exterminated by the Romans
13:45 -  in the destruction of Jerusalem, the expulsion into the nations, the tragedy that has fallen upon Jews in their diaspora, in living in Gentile lands and particularly in nominally Christian lands every time the Passover Easter season came,
14:04 -  as we said yesterday, was the cry of Christ's killer. All of that tragedy is implicit in the whole history of God's dealing with that nation. That's why Jesus wept. He foresaw what his rejection would mean, an expulsion, exile.
14:20 -  Jews would be the square peg in the round hole. They would always be a unique, different people from those in whose bosom they had come. They would always be suspect. Their differences would rub their Gentile neighbors raw.
14:37 -  They would always be the object of suspicion and any mishap could be attributed to them. So when the black plagues came and pestilences and a third of European populations were wiped out, Jews were exempt. They never contracted those diseases. They never suffered those plagues.
14:56 -  So what does the Gentile mind conclude? That the Jews poisoned the wells. How else are they exempt? Well, the reason that they were exempt is they didn't eat the pigs
15:08 -  that were the garbage disposal provision of the Middle Ages and walk through all of the dirt streets of medieval towns and people would throw their swill right out of their windows
15:21 -  and allow the pigs to be the garbage disposal, which Jews would not touch because of their law and therefore were saved from diseases contracted through eating meat of that kind. They're clean. They boil their pots and pans for the Passover.
15:37 -  You don't have a double set of dishes and pots and pans. If you're poor, you boil all that you have to make it ready for and fit for the Passover. There are many practices in Jewish life that come out of its culture, its antecedents, its history, its law,
15:52 -  its rabbinical dictums that somehow have had a life preserving propensity. But how is the Gentile mind to understand that? Particularly a mind that looks for conspiracy and looks at that suspicious people
16:08 -  as being responsible for things that are not otherwise explicable. Jews have always been cast into this most unwelcome role, living in diaspora, in expulsion, in Gentile communities.
16:23 -  That comes out of the rejection of their Messiah. So that's Jesus wept. It's part of the whole cost and the travail of the drama,
16:34 -  the selfish drama of God in which Israel, the Jew, has been the central agent. And what Reggie is saying is if you lose the significance of that people and their identity as being central, you lose this sense of cost
16:52 -  and the sense of solemnity and awareness of what it has cost them and what it has cost God. Because it's not only Jews that are in Auschwitz, it's the Lord there with them. In all their afflictions, he is afflicted.
17:09 -  He's identified with his people. He was from the first. When he went into the waters of their baptism, he was without sin for righteousness' sake.
17:18 -  And he's with them in all their suffering. There's been a great cross-sense. And we need to be mindful about it.
17:24 -  And that mindfulness is a saving grace. I can't put it together, I just sense that the vacuous, shallow emptiness, the triviality, the likeness of much of our Christian services and conduct
17:42 -  is altogether the consequence of the loss of this solemn note that comes only with the recognition of the centrality of that nation and the purposes of God. And that God intended that that note be registered upon the Church.
17:58 -  And that the likeness of the Church, its shallowness, is the evidence of the absence of this mystery. It's good for us. It's remarkable how many times we see that even in their apostate, unbelieving, God-rejecting condition,
18:15 -  there's some salutary effect for the Church that can only be brought through them. Unbeknownst to them, they're serving purposes for the Church to temper us, to bring us into a certain disposition of mind and spirit and many other salutary things.
18:32 -  So that even in their unbelief, they serve outstanding purposes of God for us. So in a certain sense, there's an indebtedness toward them in the benefit that has accrued to us, even in their present condition.
18:48 -  That means there's no place for us to look down our nose disdainfully or contemptuously because of their condition, because even in that condition, we are debtors. Do you know what I mean?
19:02 -  There's something in this relationship in the mystery of God between the Jew, Israel and the Church that is so full of divine wisdom that to lose that mystery, to say, no, Jews are nothing in particular.
19:16 -  They're just another group like Puerto Ricans and Pygmies. They need to be saved like anybody else. But no more is to lose the genius of the mystery and the benefit that would come to us in our understanding.
19:29 -  It rots the Church from being the Church and therefore it needs to be restored. So I love Reggie's phrase, the pathos. Do you know this word?
19:39 -  There's a pathos in the tragedy of Jewish suffering and the redemptive drama of God. It culminates with him wiping away every tear and bringing great comfort in that there will no more be fear or suffering or death.
19:55 -  But until that comes, until the last moment, in fact, there are tears. Yes, everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, but not before mourning and sighing has fled away. They've got to bear that in the great drama that will reveal God's glory.
20:12 -  Despite their condition and their undeservingness and their unwillingness even to be chosen, God yet will bring forth his covenantal promise and that they will be a blessing to all the families of the earth. Despite their willingness, despite their determination that they're going to be like all of the nations.
20:31 -  Nevertheless, they will be that nation of the unique and redemptive kind to all nations. That was God's intention from the first. He will have his glory.
20:41 -  They will have an eternal gratitude and we will be changed just by the awareness of this great mystery, let alone our participation in it. In fact, if we have not this awareness, how shall we be participating?
20:57 -  If it's just a cut and dry academic clinical thing and has not this aspect of pathos, God is a feeling deity. He's not clinical and a mere observer.
21:12 -  He feels this in his kishkes. And we need to also, but that it will have to be for you what it was for Paul, my gospel. There's a passionate identification with this life-saving message.
21:25 -  It's more than a formula for salvation. It's the embrace of the whole Wotan Shaoling of God. And to present that formatively to Jews who are rightly resistant against it,
21:37 -  whose every history has affected them adversely against such a message, who can't even, like my mother, 95 years old, can not even take the name Christ to her lips. And to that people, we're going to move to jealousy.
21:53 -  And that people, we're going to bring the gospel first. They are enemies for your sakes. Who needs that kind of enemy?
22:00 -  We do. Because they are formidable, because they are ultimate, because it's one of the most difficult ministries there is.
22:07 -  Maybe a Muslim would be a close second difficulty. But it puts an ultimate demand upon the Church to be the Church. We're not going to get away with this with four spiritual laws and a little glib presentation.
22:21 -  We're going to have, we have to have the wisdom of God. We have to have function and anointing. We have to have representatives from our congregations addressing the Jewish community in our midst
22:34 -  as sent ones with the laying on of hands as formatively as if we were sending them to the darkest regions of the world to face the most hostile and difficult conditions. Aren't you grateful for that?
22:47 -  Because if you don't make them first under this difficulty and this condition, what will be the result in terms of the gospel to anyone, to the Jew first and also to the Greek? And if they're not first in their formidable difficulty, then what are we bringing to the Greek?
23:08 -  There's a wisdom of God for our sake. And because we have circumvented this wisdom, the Church is in its lamentable condition and its gospel has become reduced to a mere formula for salvation,
23:25 -  where they're going to be a formidable and have been and will be to the end a formidable enemy. The first martyrs of the last days may well be at their hands in their frenetic defense of their Jewishness, looking upon us as some kind of threat, as in fact they do.
23:43 -  So as their own conditions become more insecure and the Jewish identity more threatened, they'll be more resistant at any kind of gospel outreach for them, seeing that as part of the threat. And that there's another holocaust, to what shall they attribute it?
24:00 -  But the same thing to which they attributed the last holocaust, mainly certain intrinsic defects in Christendom, implicit in the New Testament that speaks of Jews in a depreciated way that has made the way for anti-Semitism. They'll conclude again that another holocaust has to be laid at the door of the Church and it's Christianity that is responsible.
24:28 -  And so they're going to be all armed for bear against anything called Christian. And it's to us that they're coming in that condition. The loving of our enemy and in their fierce opposition and in gratitude and hostility
24:43 -  is going to be the ultimate test of the Church of the last days, as we have said again and again, that God is not only sifting Israel in its expulsion and movement through the nations, but the nations themselves and especially the Church of the nations.
25:01 -  So we're moving toward that. How much better will we be fitted to receive them understanding that if we do have a sense of pathos, if we do share the Lord's ages-old ache in the grief that he's had to bear for them
25:19 -  and the pain that he's had to experience with them, we know that Isaiah 53 has historically been interpreted by rabbis as being a statement of the nation in its suffering, where we see it as the statement of the Messiah.
25:38 -  And one is not to the exclusion of the other. There's a way in which both interpretations have a validity. But I'm saying all that to say this, if we dismiss the pathos of Jewish suffering historically
25:50 -  and therefore also in the last days, with what view do we regard the crucifixion of Jesus as the full film of the Isaiah 53? Is there a likeness in us toward it? If we're like with the one, how then can we have the appropriate pathos for the other?
26:07 -  Because there's such a mutuality in the suffering that both sons of Israel experience. Pathos is good sense, and it brings a tone, a note of solemnity, that's Reggie's word, a seriousness, a gravity, that's a word I like, that in fact is becoming to the Church.
26:29 -  The Church that lacks it is missing something that I believe God intends as essential to its character, and you cannot have it except you have it in proportion to the recognition of the mystery of Israel through the ages and its final consummation.
26:44 -  To lose that mystery is to lose that possibility, and historically it has been lost, and the condition of the Church reveals it. Well, Reggie goes from this point to ask the question, with the recognition therefore of Israel and the mystery of Israel, Israel's final redemption from such a prevail and such a suffering so kindred to the Lord's own road to Calvary,
27:06 -  how is it that the Church is ignorant of it? Are the Scriptures so sparse that you have to dig and scrape for some esoteric reference that would lend some support for a view of this kind?
27:19 -  Or on the contrary, is there such a wealth of Scripture, such a wealth of prophecy that establishes unquestionably this whole redemptive drama and this whole mystery? So if the Church is benefited by its understanding of this mystery,
27:37 -  that has lost that benefit, Reggie is raising the question, why? So no subject in all the prophetic Scriptures, he says, is more abundantly revealed and more specifically defined than the time, circumstances and manner of Israel's final redemption.
27:57 -  To disclaim certainty on this point betrays not a scarcity of definite biblical evidence concerning the nature and time of Israel's eschatological redemption, but a woeful insensibility towards the plain language and context of the most prominent theme of prophecy and promise.
28:19 -  This is digging deep at the truth of the Church's condition. And in fact, if it remains in this condition, it forfeits of any prospect of being to Israel in the last days what it must. So that's why I say the issue is not Israel, the issue is the Church.
28:37 -  Israel is going to be defunct, reduced to death, unable in itself to affect anything for itself. That anything that comes to it that will restore it must come to it from outside itself. And the principal agent employed by God in bringing those things to Israel is the Church.
28:58 -  But the Church of what kind? A Church that has the pathos of this trauma, a Church that has wrestled with and invested itself in this great residue of prophetic Scripture that makes clear both the history and the eschatological future through which Israel must pass.
29:28 -  But a woeful insensibility towards the plain language and context of the most prominent theme of prophecy and promise not only robs us of an understanding of Israel, it robs us, period. If we have an insensibility toward that drama, secured as it is by such prolific rape in Scripture,
29:49 -  then to what else will we have a sensitivity? If we're defunct here, how shall we be sensitive elsewhere? If this is so central, particularly at the end of the age, moving toward this consummation, where the Church is the agent and we are insensible or insensitive and ignorant in a willful way,
30:14 -  in what other way then are we sensitive? So the issue of our attitude and our understanding toward this mystery of Israel is critical to the whole overview of the faith. I would be suspicious of any other kind of demonstration of supposed sensitivity in the absence of this sensitivity.
30:38 -  I think that's what Reggie is getting at. He says, such modest ambivalence concerning this troublesome theme has nothing to do with any ambiguity inherent within the language and intent of the text. It's all too plain. The Scriptures are all too clear and there's such a weight of them that when I have to stand up and speak on this subject,
31:04 -  my problem is not that I have to scrape to find the verse, that there's such an overwhelming body of prophetic testimony of a future calamity for Israel before a final redemption. I don't know where to begin. So to be ignorant of it almost raises the cloud of suspicion whether that ignorance is willful.
31:25 -  Though I myself was ignorant for the longest time to the please God to begin to lift that veil. And maybe this is not an insignificant note, that the lifting of that veil for myself had to come in a season of death. I did not have any understanding of this mystery.
31:45 -  Reggie had long run his fingers with Kyle Hill and other of the brothers from Texas at how obdurate and unseen I was. Being a Jew of the mystery that I should perhaps of all people have had of the greatest affinity, I was non-compassionate. My jealousy was only for the church, the glory of God in the church.
32:04 -  Israel, yes, I go there every year, but just to preach to the body of Christ as I would with any other nation. I did not know. I had no concern. I had no affinity for a mystery of Israel, a national destiny. It was outside my understanding until I entered a season of death.
32:23 -  Paul and Adrian know about it. They were witness to it when the Lord brought the then-bent Israel into death. And what an inexplicable mystery that was. It was not, I can be corrected, an implosion of internal contradictions and difficulties that finally brought that community to an end.
32:44 -  In fact, on the contrary, I would think that we were beginning to see daylight after much struggle in finding our way. So it wasn't that we were brought into death and God terminated the community and required us to abdicate the land because of internal failure, but rather some other requirement that he was not explained.
33:05 -  And of course, when he doesn't explain so radical a requirement as abdicating a property and letting everything dissolve into death, that compounds the death yet more. And if I'm the founder of this little enterprise, I have got to taste this death more acutely than any
33:25 -  because the prophetic requirement is always an identification with the message, always in a measure the living of it, because Israel is going to have to abdicate. Jews are going to be compelled to leave their places of familiarity and support and economic success and all the rest.
33:50 -  Suddenly, as suddenly as we were required to leave and be expelled out also. And one day there'll be a restoration and return as indeed has come for us or you guys would not be here. But there was a three year interval between the time of expulsion and the time of return.
34:09 -  And I want you to know those three years were filled with death and burial. For me, not the least of it was being sent to a liberal theological seminary. I can tell you it was a daily dime, particularly with sixty five percent of the student body were women, feminists and riches.
34:30 -  And I took a brother with me into my class one day who was visiting to be here for the school. He said, the moment you entered the room, I could feel these women bristle. And yet open your mouth and they were they were vibrating.
34:46 -  And the moment you open your mouth, no matter what you said, even in a reference to God as using the male pronoun, they jumped on you as being sexist and threatened that you would be kicked out of school for your sexist language, calling God he rather than acknowledging Mother Goddess.
35:07 -  He said, I said, of course, what do you expect? It's just the old story again of Elijah and Jezebel. And he said that I understood, but not until he said that I could go into much detail only to say this.
35:24 -  It was a three year season of death and burial. In fact, not the least of the deaths or the one or two occasions I had to come onto the property to find the paper or look for something or do something and to come to a property totally uninhabited.
35:41 -  A ghost town where I remember driving up with my car, the roads were not plowed. Who's going to plow them? It was the winter time. I went in as far as I could. I opened the door, my dog went out of the car, went about five paces and stopped and came back with its tail between its legs.
35:58 -  So life was the and prominent was the death that pervaded this place. And I could hear the creaking of the doors in the wind and not the sound of a single voice. Having lived for 10 years with 55 souls on the same property and the sound of life and activity was everywhere.
36:17 -  And now to come back to the same place like a ghost town was to taste the death. But it was in that season of time that the Lord began to open the revelation of the thing that has now become a central theme in our service,
36:34 -  the mystery of Israel and the restoration of Israel through a final season of trial in the last days and the role of the church in the fulfillment of that scenario came not because I was instructed by any professor at the seminary, but only by the inadvertent falling upon books accidentally in the library looking for one and finding another about Jews in Germany.
37:06 -  The Lord just began. By the way, I was on a sabbatical silence. The Lord did not explain it. I was forbidden to speak, preach, give a message. The Lord didn't say why it went on for 14 months for a man who lives from his mouth.
37:21 -  I was forbidden to speak. George Warnock will be here. He'll remember when I was up there in British Columbia at his fellowship and they were pleading with me to share. I said, I can't. I'm not allowed. I don't know why.
37:34 -  But the first time that the Lord lifted that 14 month ban on speaking was when the phone rang and a man called from Sacramento at the conference that Paul and Adrian both attended. He said, Artie said, you don't know me, but we're here in Sacramento and praying and feel that God wants you to speak to us.
37:54 -  A seminar on Israel and the church in the last days. Exactly the theme that God had put in my heart and the things that were being brought to light and unveiled during that season of death. So I don't understand all this, but if it took a death to be a key to the opening of the sacred,
38:19 -  holy mystery of God so long lost to the church, to the church's own detriment, what will it take for the church to find it? What will it take for the church to fulfill it if not a death of a comparable kind? And anyone who's in my shoes knows that every time again you're called to speak on this subject, it's another death.
38:45 -  It's another resurrection. There's no two speakers on it the same. There's always that tremor of something that was issued from God out of his life, which is another experience of death. And may well be, I'm just talking at the top of my head, that's why I love these around the table sessions,
39:08 -  that it's the intuitive recognition by the church that the subject of Israel is the subject of the church's death, for which reason the subject is avoided. It's much easier to embrace Israel as it presently exists, as a Zionist state, and go and plant trees, and go to a conference, and be a tourist, and la, la, la, and integrate our front. That's easy. But if somehow there's a death involved here, that this mystery is not cheap,
39:40 -  and the only way to access it is out of a resurrection revelation that comes out of the life of God through a death willingly born. No wonder the church shuns the mystery, let alone that once being employed in the fulfillment of the mystery, death will certainly be required. Or how else shall we address the bones?
40:03 -  What, we're going to say bones be joined to bones, and flesh be put on, and the ruach of God come into the dead bones of Ezekiel 37, out of our religious ability, out of our well-meaning intention, and it's going to happen? If that's not a word of resurrection itself, those bones will remain absolutely piled up and bleached and worthless.
40:28 -  They have to be addressed in the power of resurrection, where they will not come to life at all, and God is not going to do it himself. You do it, son of man. Well Lord, I needn't know if I want to.
40:44 -  I think I like it where they are, because so long as they are there, then I am the preeminent and only object of your affection and your glory. But if they come to life again, I've got a competitor. Does the Church really want Israel's restoration?
41:03 -  And if we don't really want it because we're insecure, and we want to be the sole object of God's attention and love, what in us needs to die of that deep-seated and intrinsic spiritual selfishness that has no place for the erring son to return and will not enter the feast that the Father has prepared for him?
41:28 -  What in us needs to die to be the son of man that can be called upon, not when we're spiritual, but when we don't feel like it? And that moment prophesied to those folks is death, death, death, in order to be life, life, life. And the Church, rightly and wisely and intuitively, has avoided it by avoiding the mystery.
41:54 -  It doesn't mind Jews getting saved, but the idea of a national restoration is quite another matter. So I like what Reggie is touching here, this seeming modest ambivalence. Well, I don't know. You can see it this way or you can see it that way.
42:15 -  It could be symbolic. It could mean Zion doesn't necessarily mean an actual literal geographic place. That's only a metaphor. That's a spiritual term for people of a certain condition. Yes, that's true, but it's not the first truth. It's a secondary truth.
42:34 -  The first truth is its literal meaning. Why do you shun it? Why are you ambiguous? Why are you uncertain? It's as clear as daylight if you choose to see it. But what requirement does that seem to make?
42:51 -  Because the language itself is not ambiguous. The law shall go forth out of Zion. And that is not poetry. It's clear in the context because nations hearing and receiving that law beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into plunders and studied one or more. That's a revolution.
43:07 -  It'll upset the whole world economy and make it precious, but men don't want to be upset. So is it rather the product of an unwarranted process of reinterpretation or spiritualization applied only to these prophecies that promise the future repentance of glory of ethnic Israel?
43:30 -  I think we have to raise and ask the question, is there innate and historic anti-Semitism in the Church that begrudges Jews and Israel their central role? And the fact that you're a Jewish believer does not make you exempt from that kind of anti-Semitism. Some of the fiercest anti-Semites can be Jews and are.
43:53 -  All the more because they've been pricked by their own histories. With Aunt Matildon, the varicose vein, said Paul, when we remember references like that in times past, unhappy episodes in our own life and dealing with our own kinsmen have given us a distaste,
44:11 -  even for Jews and Jewishness, that somehow even unconsciously can affect our unwillingness to see their ultimate glory. And we have a preference for the Church, but we don't have as much of a yes in our hearts for our own kinsmen. Well, whether we're Jews or not Jews, can it be that this unwillingness to see the clear testimony of Scripture,
44:37 -  of Israel's centrality in the chosenness of God in His election as a lingering anti-Semitism in the Church, a last aspect of that which is Gentile and that the fullness of the Gentiles cannot be come in until that's recognized and brought to them? This is the last obstruction that keeps the Church in its Gentilic mind and that only the issue of the Jew could have revealed it?
45:05 -  What is there that lies too deep for words beneath the surface of life and the consciousness of men that is a factor even in the Church, that will not itself experience a full redemption until it sees and recognizes in itself a reluctance and an unwillingness to give to the Jew and to Israel the preeminence that it has pleased God to bestow? What is it with us? Do you know what I mean?
45:36 -  I'm equally as suspicious of this tripping over ourselves to fall on their necks and hug them and think that they're so darling and cute and all that stuff. It's just the other side of the wrong coin. But the love of God, the bowels of God, the compassion of God, the identification of God is what He's after.
45:55 -  So what searches us out more than what God has chosen? And what is the deepest resentment? It's not so much that He has chosen the Jew. Certainly, it would not have been our choice, but that in the last analysis, it painfully confronts us with our God who chooses, who is particular.
46:18 -  We surrender to God till we have surrendered to that. That's why I think our praises, I'm speaking of the Church in general, lack a real convincing reality until He's law in His absoluteness. And this is the final friend, saving it for the end of the age. But I think we need to recognize it.
46:40 -  And Reggie is raising the question and I'm taking it further. Is there a possible innate anti-Semitism practiced at the cost of deluding scripture itself, spiritualizing what God intends as literal? As we said yesterday, what will be the consequence for the Church that allows itself that liberty?
47:02 -  If we have done violence to the scriptures with regard to Israel, are we going to be careful and sacrosanct about other scripture? Or have we allowed a fatal misstep that will affect our shallow attitude toward all scripture and exalting ourselves above the God who gave it to give an interpretation that is conducive to our own self-interest?
47:26 -  When you take liberty with the word of God, is it not crucifying the Lord of glory and the fresh? And where are we more tested than in those scriptures that speak literally of a nation's restoration for whom we have no stomach, no desire? So that the Church has historically spiritualized away those literal references and chooses not to see them.
47:50 -  That's fatal for the Church, not only on the issue of Jews, but in general. As I was sharing with another brother, in my experience, the place where I have had the greatest conflict and where men have sent out letters in their nation warning them that I'm a false prophet,
48:08 -  have come in those fellowships in support to be apostolic and prophetic. Why are my deepest conflicts with those movements that profess to be that? You would think that there would be such an instant affinity, but quite the contrary, for hostility.
48:24 -  Because their restoration is not the restoration of Israel. Their restoration is the Church as being the thing and end in itself. And they're not even in a position where they can even consider anything that would put that centrality in question.
48:42 -  So maybe that's why I'm speaking of this with more vehemence than you can understand, because I've been on the receiving end of an inexplicable rejection, primarily because they intuit or know that I bear this kind of message.
48:58 -  And it threatens an understanding of restoration that nothing else will. I'm curious to see how George Warnock is going to take this. And is he not here at this time for this purpose?
49:12 -  That in this 25th anniversary of reconciliation, that there's going to be a deep reconciliation between men who have majored in different aspects of the truth of God. And now we have come to it an hour and a time when it all has to become as one.
49:29 -  We need to see what the other brother has been made to major in by the Lord. And we have to receive what the other has and come to the fullness its time. But will we come to it? Will we be threatened by the other view? Can we be accommodated?
49:45 -  Why are we not rejoicing for the soon return of an erring son for whom the father has a feast and a ring and a new garment? Why did that older son refuse even to come in in his solemnness and power?
50:02 -  Why didn't he share the father's joy as one who was lost and brought back, as being one who is dead and is now made alive? What is it with the church that has an attitude of this kind that is not like the father's?
50:17 -  I think we need to be instructed by what the father said to the son. Son, don't you know that everything that I have always have is yours? Didn't you know that? You don't have to be insecure.
50:32 -  You don't have to feel that you've lost the place of preeminence. Everything that I have is yours. Why didn't you know it? Because your niggardly attitude toward your brother, your inability to be joyous for his return,
50:45 -  shows an insecurity, shows that you do not know that everything that I have is yours. And you're clutching the little bit that you've had, which you have legalistically maintained by doing everything right, legally and technically, but not lovingly.
51:01 -  Something is amiss with you, always was amiss, but now it's being revealed in your inability to rejoice. Oh, I tell you dear saints, there's a statement there, more of the condition of the church than we can know. And we need to pray for that.
51:16 -  What is it with the church that does not know that it is accepted in the beloved? That does not know, like Jesus knew, that he came from the father and he's going to the father and the father has given him all things and therefore he could take off his robe and humble himself
51:32 -  and put on the towel of a slave and go down on his knees and wash the streaking feet of his disciples. Because he was enabled to that humility by the knowledge that he had, that he came from the father. He was going to the father and the father had given him all things.
51:49 -  We don't know it. We don't deeply know it. We know it, what shall I say, doctrinally, but we don't know it existentially. And it's revealed therefore in our attitude to the every son who will be brought back and restored.
52:04 -  So the issue of Israel's restoration is the issue of the church. And it's that to which we need to direct our prayer, compassionately with pathos for its own condition. And somehow it has been robbed of the deepest recognition of what God has in his grace given it,
52:25 -  that it cannot graciously welcome back the erring son like the father and even be willing to be required of in the bringing back of that son. But someone needs now to finger this grave and historical mission.
52:43 -  That's true. We who have been privileged to catch glimpse of it, are not by that one fell swoop magically moved upon to look on no hands with the complete saints. But I can't help but believe that the omission is having its continuing effect on the church
53:02 -  and that this rectification needs to be made. That it's not going to bring everything into place, but it will bring principal things into place. And if we could see as God sees how the tentacles that shoot out from these issues touch so many things.
53:17 -  And in the last analysis, the great thing that it touches is the issue of the cross. And at a climactic moment over one phenomenon, there are two radical and opposing perceptions. Both say Lord, Lord, but one did not see in the brethren, in this least of his brethren, the Lord's people.
53:39 -  And the other did. How can both looking at the same phenomenon, both saying Lord, have a totally different perception of the reality that has come before them? One is called righteous and invited to the kingdom prepared for it.
53:53 -  And the other is sent into the lake of fire prepared for the devil as angels over the failure to see one issue rightly. What separates the one Lord, Lord group from the other Lord, Lord group
54:06 -  that they have totally different eternal destinations over either the right apprehension of the reality of the least of the brothers or the wrong. How is it that both seeing the same phenomenon have seen it differently?
54:20 -  How is it that men with whom we are in contention will employ the same scriptures as ourselves to prove their point to be in opposition to our view that I have to suggest to them that the issue with you brother is really the cross.
54:34 -  You are using scripture, but you already have an agenda. You already have an investment. You have a stake in present Israel's survival. You are unable to see and consider an apocalyptic future for present Israel
54:52 -  because you are so much involved in the success of present Israel. How then can the scriptures speak to you in their pristine and intended meaning if you already have a view that needs to be maintained?
55:06 -  What you need is the cross and a death to your view and to your investment and your vested interest in present Israel. So the issue of the cross is a critical issue.
55:19 -  And I think that that's probably the difference between those who did not see in these least the brethren of the Lord because they were unable to suffer the risk of the loss to themselves in helping those that were hungry, thirsty, naked, sick and in prison.
55:38 -  That's what it's going to mean. To recognize is to be required. And to be required is to run the risk of loss, even of life. Better not to see.
55:51 -  And the unwillingness to see is what Reggie is getting at. That with all of this plenitude of scripture, why isn't the Church seeing? That rests so much then on the depth of our internalizing our existential awareness
56:07 -  that while we were yet sinners, He loved us. We can say that and quote that doctrinally and correctly, but to what extent have we existentially felt that and obtained that
56:22 -  will be the degree to which we could look upon them in the way that we ought. So again, we're being measured in a way that we would not have been measured except by the issue of these people who are in the pig pens and eating the swill.
56:40 -  If it were not for that, we would have rested content with our doctrinal yes, that while we were yet sinners, He died for us. But because they're in this will, it measures the depth of the truth,
56:54 -  the existential truth of that statement as nothing else would have measured it. See what I mean? So God uses Israel even as a way of showing us in a way that we would not have otherwise seen it,
57:12 -  how superficially we would have been satisfied merely with doctrinal or phraseological truth that had not become for us existentially true. Our attitude will reveal it.
57:27 -  If we're looking disdainfully upon them in this will, it's because we have not seen ourselves as sinners who were saved while we were yet in our sin. Can you understand what I'm saying?
57:40 -  Again, Israel serves a function totally unknown to themselves that I don't see any other kind of subject having the power to reveal the truth of our condition than they in their condition.
57:55 -  And in that I see the wisdom of God. And that's why Paul cries out for that and other reasons, all the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God who has been his counselor.
58:06 -  The most ecstatic praise in the whole New Testament comes out of Paul's recognition of the mystery of God, not only about Israel's restoration, but the relationship with the Church in that restoration. And it does for the Church what only Israel could in that condition.
58:27 -  There's a mystery of reciprocity that shows the wisdom of God before which Paul falls and cries out, oh, the depth of the riches, both the wisdom and knowledge of God who has been his counselor. We have not fallen.
58:43 -  We have not sounded that kind of ecstatic praise because we have not seen the mystery in the depth which the Apostle Paul has. I think God is waiting for that recognition and that hard cry.
58:56 -  I would have said it's the issue of even true and false prophets. And it's coming into view in what are they proclaiming and how do they bring the issue of Israel to the consideration of the Church
59:10 -  and are they bringing it at all? And if the hour is late and we have the threshold of this fulfillment and the Church is still so removed from its place of recognition and preparation,
59:22 -  what ought to be then one of the most prominent themes of prophetic proclamation with this? And the very absence of that or the light treatment of it makes me need to question who in fact is the true prophet by the kind of message that is born
59:39 -  and the anointing or ability to bring it to the Church in a way that will awaken its pathos and its participation. This is more than communicating the knowledge.
59:50 -  This is requiring a response of an ultimate kind called the cross. And I think that it requires an office and the authority in that office to bring that kind of word in that kind of way with that kind of response
01:00:03 -  where Israel will suffer the want of such a Church. And so therefore I believe one of the great issues of our present hour is the issue of who in fact is prophet.
01:00:14 -  Not only our willingness to suffer the things that are needful, but our willingness to allow Israel to suffer the things that are needful. That's where we're betrayed. That's where we're revealed.
01:00:25 -  Because we want to spare her in our humane kindness and so-called compassionate concern. We're more humanly wanting to alleviate a suffering from Israel than to see her brought through suffering to the place where the glory of his kingdom
01:00:45 -  is established by the restoration. That is to say we're operating at a secondary level at another kind of motive because we have not Paul's passion and intense centrality of the glory of God
01:00:59 -  that even requires Israel's suffering that precedes it. We want to spare her from that suffering rather than anticipate it. And for the first time I hope this is not too exaggerated
01:01:13 -  a statement of taking a prophetic liberty which the Lord will wrap my knuckles. I wonder to what degree the Zionist state is the swill of the pig pen that the Father has allowed Israel to experience
01:01:27 -  and has not brought them gratification or fulfillment though they have run as easily toward it as the Particle Son had in seeking to establish his own fortune.
01:01:40 -  And that there's no return except from the pig pen. There's no gratitude. There's no coming to the Father in truth. There's no receiving of the ring, the cloak and the feast
01:01:51 -  except we have first gone all the way down in the fulfillment of what we had humanly thought would have been fulfillment. And that the Father's love is so great that he allows us to do it.
01:02:02 -  He allows the nation to do it and even gives a kind of providential enablement to see to it that we will be so gorged with that swill and recognize how failed we are in our own intention
01:02:16 -  that will gratefully return to the Father who waits us. How far will we go? And what is love? And if this is love, my God, what have we thought one is
01:02:27 -  in our protective hovering over our children to spare them when the Father's love allowed the son to go out and do his thing. So maybe the issue of Israel and God's relationship
01:02:42 -  both in judgment and in mercy is an education and a revelation of God as God, as in fact he's revealed in his creation from the beginning. And so also in his dealings with Israel likely to the end
01:02:57 -  and because we have not understood that mystery and able to interpret modern events like the establishment of the state and in my opinion it's soon demise, we have fallen short of the understanding of God.
01:03:10 -  We don't know him as we ought. We do not know him in his severity and in his kindness and we have not only lacked pathos and have a likeness in the church
01:03:21 -  but have trivialized the God of the church because the only recognition of him that would have occasioned the depth of worship, praise and acknowledgement
01:03:32 -  is the depth of the revelation that comes in his dealing with this the elect and competent people, that he will go that far. And our pouting and wincing and crying out to God in opposition to his dealings with us
01:03:47 -  and considering him unfair and how come is because we've not understood how far he will go. So go that far with this people who are the apple of his eye
01:03:58 -  and whom he loves than one of us. There's been an imbalance and a projecting on God our own humane considerations because we have not loved his severity.
01:04:11 -  We have not loved his judgments. We have not seen his love in his judgments as we have not seen his grace in his law.
01:04:19 -  See what I mean? We have not seen. The mystery of Israel is the mystery of God.
01:04:24 -  And if we missed it we have missed him and therefore we have made him more the projection of our own humane dimension and we can't celebrate a false God.
01:04:36 -  Our worship will not win true. Our service will be wanting. In every way we'll be defective.
01:04:41 -  And if we are defective how then can we beat the Israel of people that will move them to jealousy. Everything rests upon our knowing him and making him known.
01:04:51 -  The plumb line of God that has come down from heaven points to one event and that event is God's hermeneutical key of interpretation
01:05:02 -  for all the scripture, for all mystery, for the whole the whole salvation history of God. It is Christ crucified.
01:05:12 -  Christ on the cross. That is the key. And to the degree that we have understood and appropriated
01:05:20 -  the mystery of that inexpressible suffering and agony performed by God we have not a key of interpretation for Israel, the Church or anything else.
01:05:34 -  It's our failure there that explains our failure elsewhere. We're raising the issue of Israel only to illustrate that that's where we have failed. That's where we want a happy ending.
01:05:44 -  That's where we want an easier solution for Israel, for ourselves, for our fellowships because we have not recognized the centrality of the cross. The wisdom of God and the necessity for a suffering unto death
01:05:58 -  that precedes an ascension, a resurrection and a glory. So may God bring us to that cross afresh because we hear so little preached
01:06:11 -  and rightly so because I've said so many times, who's qualified? It's the one thing and the ultimate thing that cannot be academically expressed. You cannot be correct about it.
01:06:23 -  You can only speak it to the degree of your own appropriation and the willingness to have experienced in some measure that cross.