Israels Calvary Road and the Role of the Church

00:00 -  So I'm feeling very somber, and the message that I have is totally inappropriate to the atmosphere that you've generated in your worship. What do you think about that?
00:15 -  One of us, one of us is very wrong. I'm reminded of a evening in Cameroon, Africa, on Prayer for Africa Day, I was appointed to be the speaker, but the time they got me up to the microphone, well past the appointed
00:36 -  time, after much, quote, worship of the kind that you have generated tonight, I took the microphone and I said, I have a word from the Lord of a prophetic kind, but I cannot speak it, because the atmosphere that you have generated is incompatible with the word
00:59 -  that I have to speak, and I sat down. It was a real word for Africa, but I was not able to speak it. A test of real worship is, does it aid and abet the word of God, or obstruct it?
01:23 -  Is it just a man speaking out of his generational difference, that he's older, and there's a generational gap, he's not quite responsive to this type of boisterous worship, or is there something about the prophetic man that is timeless and eternal, beyond generations,
01:48 -  that is the foremost structure of his life, and he really is a measure. How things, how he sees and hears and reflects is maybe more of an acute consideration for the church than it knows, but I think the word is important, and if you can hear it,
02:10 -  it will temper you, and if I'm not mistaken, you need to be tempered. So Lord, let me not carry on, God forbid that I should speak to this people out of some kind of human, cultural, generational difference Lord, but speak to them out of that timeless
02:35 -  place that prophetic men are privileged to God and jealously to express and to maintain. Come and sound something appointed for this night, and open their inner ear to hear it, and bring such change by it, my God, for which they will be grateful in the future, in the
03:00 -  days to come, in the last days, and you'll be glorified thereby. Come my God, and if you can reconcile what has preceded my speaking with my speaking, I give you the praise, the glory, and the honor.
03:16 -  Come Lord, and bless your own soul. Only you can do it. We thank you in Jesus' name.
03:22 -  Amen. Well, you can turn to Isaiah 52, you know that there's a little standing controversy between Judaism and Christendom as to the proper interpretation of Isaiah 53.
03:40 -  The Church, of course, has long held that it's the most acute picture of Jesus as the suffering servant, but in order to reject that claim and not come under the obligation to receive it, the Jewish community and its rabbis and spokesmen have interpreted as referring
04:00 -  not to Jesus, per se, but to the people of Israel in their suffering. And there's a certain credibility, but it really stretches it very far if you look acutely at the text, it just does not work.
04:16 -  But no one has suggested that there's a future time in which Isaiah 53 will be as descriptive of the suffering of the people of Israel and a road to Calvary as it was for the Lord before them.
04:34 -  And I believe it's necessary that that nation tread that road. That there's a suffering and a humiliation and an abasement that must precede the exultation and glory of the nation.
04:51 -  It's a rhythm, it's a principle, it's a wisdom, it's something intrinsic in the nature of reality itself for which the Son of God was not exempt. He needed to be abased, and is there any greater abasing than the cross?
05:10 -  Could he have gone any lower than the humiliation that he suffered at the hands of men when he had no beauty that any should desire him and he was marked more than any man? But because he suffered and was abased, God has exalted him as we read in Philippians,
05:29 -  I believe, chapter 2, and given them a name above every name, that to that name every knee shall bend and every tongue confess that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God the Father. So let me take inventory.
05:43 -  Are you understanding me so far? If you are, I'm a bit surprised, but pleased. Do you understand the word abase and exult?
05:57 -  They are, what's the word, polarities. Do you understand that there's a wisdom and a design of God, that exultation and glory must necessarily be preceded by abasement and suffering and humiliation?
06:16 -  Do you understand that as a principle? Have you ever received it as a fact in your own life? Would you be offended by God if he were to bring you to a place of abasement, or would
06:33 -  you rather just be a normal Christian and go on from Sunday to Sunday and have little calisthenic occasions of the kind that you have enjoyed tonight and ain't we got fun? Or would you rather be a real saint of an apostolic or prophetic kind, called to a last
06:53 -  day's suffering? So here's my feeling, saints, and it's more than I can express to you in one night. You couldn't take it, if I could, it's completely out of your ken, K-E-N, it's outside of your
07:11 -  range of thought and understanding. Whatever affinity you have for Israel, and probably you have as a charismatic Christian some kind of shallow emotional or sentimental identity for the Jew, for Israel, pray for
07:28 -  the peace of Jerusalem, and however troubled they presently are as a nation, they'll come out of it and it'll all come together somehow, while you're all together so removed from the reality of God, I wouldn't know where to begin with you.
07:46 -  I want to tell you, I have to just make straight out statements, and then you can consider them, there's a necessity for a suffering and a death and a resurrection for Israel as a people that is yet future in order for them to attain and to fulfill their millennial
08:09 -  and eternal calling as a blessing to all the peoples of the earth and the theocratic center of God's rule over creation in their hill of Zion in the city of Jerusalem and the restored and redeemed Israel.
08:28 -  Did you know that, do you know that there's going to be a great falling away in the last days, I believe for two principal reasons, one the failure of the rapture to take place, and for which so many have counted, to save them out of a time of tribulation, where is
08:48 -  God, and the second offense is God's judgment upon his people, Israel, called the time of Jacob's trouble, which Jesus said and implied that it will be the greatest trouble ever known by the nation, it will eclipse and exceed anything it has previously known or will again
09:14 -  know, and that that time will be so severe that if it were not cut short, no flesh will survive, but for the elect's sake, the surviving remnant that shall come as the redeemed of the Lord to Zion, that time will be cut short.
09:32 -  In a word, it's in this generation, it's ready, it's getting ready, it could break forth momentarily a defeat of Israel, an expulsion from its present political boundaries, a triggering of a worldwide hatred against the Jew that will be global, called the time of Jacob's
09:58 -  trouble, that will offend many Christians, because haven't they suffered enough already? Isn't it time now that they should have a homeland like any other nation, don't they deserve? You see these human reflections, these human assumptions about what ought to
10:22 -  be and how God ought to act, and they don't understand that a nation that is called more than just to perpetuate itself and exalt itself, but to exhibit the glory of God forever and be the locus of his theocratic rule over creation, such a nation like its Lord before it must
10:47 -  necessarily experience a suffering humiliation and an abasement of dispersal, a sifting and a restoration of a surviving remnant to be that people, and that reality that will be global and before the face of all nations will offend many Christians. Where is God
11:11 -  is what they will say, to allow a tragedy, a devastation of this magnitude that eclipses even the Nazi time. Many of us, if you live through the Nazi time as most of you haven't, have not even been able to answer that question. Where was God when 6 million Jews were systematically
11:33 -  annihilated? The fact that you have not asked that question or considered it explains more than you know your present low estate and shallowness. So how shall you face a second devastation that yet will eclipse the earlier and not be confined to Europe or Germany or
11:57 -  Poland, but be global in a shorter period of time with a greater loss of life and a greater devastation? So this is my prophetic understanding. You see why we can't get along together? In Isaiah 52, well, try and break into the scriptures at any point, in Isaiah
12:24 -  51 there is such a picture of a devastation of Israel and of Jerusalem. In verse 17 of 51, awake, awake, stand up, O Jerusalem, which has drunken at the hand of the Lord the cup of his fury, thou hast drunken the dregs of the cup of trembling, and run them out. It's
12:45 -  the cup of his fury. It's not the arbitrary activity of an Islamic or Palestinian hatred. That's only the medium or the rod of his chastisement, but there's a chastisement, there's a fury, there's an indignation, there's a wrath. That is double for us, more so than for you, because
13:08 -  we are Jews, because we've had the privilege of covenant, because we have rejected the greater privilege which was ours. We suffer double measure for our sins. So we need to read the scriptures carefully, saints, even though they offend us. What, that God is capable
13:27 -  of fury? How nice little God, who's full of kindness and mercy and goodness and, you know, cozy and supports and, what's the word, endorses? How little microcosmic world and life and view that such a God is capable of not only of anger and wrath, but of fury? And that
13:51 -  he will manifest it and pour it out unto dregs to the bottom of that bitter cup? Not just to his strangers, but to his own chosen people? What kind of God is that? And until you know God as that, you don't know God. So what you're worshipping is largely the construct of your
14:13 -  own imagination. Nice, you know, it's happy, but I can't join you in that. You know what I mean? I can't join you, because there's no underlie of sorrow. There's no sense of tragedy. There's no understanding of the depth of God in judgment. Until you know him like
14:35 -  that, you don't know him as you ought. And because you don't know him as you ought, you'll not be able to be to them as you ought when they shall be uprooted and dispersed throughout all nations, including this one. So I have to believe he's wanting something sounded
14:55 -  in this Michigan, Indiana area and proximity to the Great Lakes that will serve his purposes in good stead in the future. But you've got to tune in to me. It'll be something for you. So, awake, stand up, O Jerusalem, which has drunk at the hand of the Lord the cup of this
15:17 -  fury, and there's none to guide her among all the sons whom she hath brought forth. Neither is there any that takes her by the hand of the sons that she brought up. These two things have come upon thee. Who shall be sorry for thee? Desolation and destruction,
15:30 -  and the famine and the sword. By whom shall I comfort thee? Thy sons have fainted. They lie at the head of all the streets as a wild bull in the net. They are full of the fury of the Lord, the rebuke of thy God. You know how I see this prophetically? You can correct
15:47 -  me later. I see the IDF, the Israeli Defense Forces, now highly touted as one of the great military presences in Europe until the Lebanese crisis. Then we came out with mud on our face and we were demoralized. We didn't swoop through the enemy with the kind of aplomb, A-P-L-O-M-V,
16:12 -  and vigor and success that we've enjoyed in previous things. In fact, they're still critiquing why the Israeli forces really failed and why the Hezbollah was even more impressive. So here we see a picture of young men, probably in the military, like bulls in their net at
16:35 -  the head of every street, fuming and snorting and helpless and trapped. I believe that's going to be a picture in the future when the great walls that Israel has built between itself and the West Bank of the Palestinians will not hold back the flood and torrent of
16:52 -  resentment and hatred and bitterness that has been over a half century in making, and it will flood Israel and its women will be ravaged. And there'll be wholesale desolation and destitution and destruction. The great cities will go down. So here's a prelude in
17:13 -  the prophetic scriptures, but who's reading these? Thy sons have fainted, they lie at the head of all the streets as a wild bull in a net. Therefore hear now this, thou afflicted and drunk, but not with wine. Thus saith the Lord, the Lord and thy God, that pleads the
17:28 -  cause of his people. Behold, I've taken out of thine hand a cup of trembling, even the dregs of a cup of my fury. Thou shalt no more drink it again. Praise the Lord. Until he does so, we will drink it, and then he gives it to those who have afflicted us. I will
17:46 -  put it into the hand of them that afflict thee, which have said to thy soul, bow down that we may go over, and thou hast laid thy body upon the ground, and as the street to them that went over. I'm prophesying, I'm predicting, I'm putting my whole exalted reputation on
18:05 -  the line, that the day will come, and it's not distant, when there will be a defeated Israel, and its sons will be caught like bulls in a net at the head of every street, their women will be left defenseless, their cities will be pulverized, and their enemy will not
18:24 -  be satisfied merely with their defeat, but with their humiliation, because there's something in that Arab and Islamic soul that is not satisfied till, as we say in Yiddish, until there's a talachas, a spite, that gets out the last ounce of satisfaction, because it
18:43 -  says to the defeated Jew, lie down and we will walk over you, and the scripture says, and they lie down and they are walked over. I call that a basement. Where is there a church anywhere that has this anticipation and is sobered by it? So that runs into chapter 52
19:14 -  where it tells Zion that thy God reigneth, reigns? We're being walked over, and thy God reigns? Yes. He reigns in judgment as he reigns in mercy, but just to hear that this is not arbitrary, that we're not just a victim of onslaught that is just the work of reckless,
19:37 -  frenzied men, but that God is really employing them for our chastisement, enables us somehow to bear the suffering and the devastation that will come. Thy watchman shall lift up the voice, and with the voice together they shall sing, they shall sing eye to eye, when
19:54 -  the Lord shall bring again Zion. When the Lord shall bring again Zion is not the present state of Israel. You can take me out of the barn and beat me up afterwards, but I distinguish between the present political state and the creation of a nation birthed in a day that
20:17 -  is yet future, that is the return to Zion out from desolation and being cast out and sifted through the nations as we read in Amos chapter 9. I will sift you through all nations and not so much as one kernel shall fall to the ground. So wherever I am in the world,
20:43 -  I'm in many places where they've never even seen a Jew, and I can tell them with complete confidence, prepare yourself, some segment of my people will be traversing your ground because you yourself need to be sifted by them. How well shall Jesus pronounce his final,
21:04 -  his first judgment as Matthew 25 as the newly seeded king in separating sheep from goats except in the one issue by which he says to groups who both call him Lord, one condemned to an eternal damnation and the other to a place in his kingdom over the issue of what
21:23 -  did you do with the least of these, my brethren. Oh, you dear saints, this is so epical, this is so vast, this is so comprehensive, this is so conclusive of the ages that I hardly know where to begin to begin to induct you, but that you need to be inducted is clear.
21:49 -  Whether you can be is a moot question. You just may prefer Charismatica to the sober truths of the last days by which you're fitted to bear the anguish of Israel's devastation and even be an agent of rescue for some aspect of the remnant that will pass through you
22:15 -  as they are sifted through all nations, including this nation, because you anticipate their coming and are prepared for it and are prepared to receive them who are not going to be the cutesy little darlings that you in your imagination have cultivated to now, where you pinch a
22:32 -  Jew in the cheek and aren't they sweet and aren't they cute and go to Israel and plant the tree and attend the feast of tabernacles. You're going to find a demoralized, broken, dispirited people absolutely out of their skulls with vexation because of the suddenness
22:52 -  of being uprooted and losing everything in their places of greatest affluence and security everywhere and anywhere in the world and they'll come to you in that condition and they'll be mean-spirited. You think they're going to be grateful because you're nice to them
23:10 -  and you might even be provoked them to vexation and irritation all the more because of your niceness. They're tested as Jews have always tested the church and the church has always failed the test. This is the last occasion by which the church has to be tested by Jews
23:32 -  and that measure of the church that can pass that test and show forth the grace and mercy and unconditional love of God even being vexed by a mean-spirited people will have been a key to the salvation of the Lord sheep of the house of Israel having moved them to jealousy.
23:53 -  But it will require a deeper spirituality than you now possess. Verse 9 of chapter 52, Break forth into joy sing together you waste places of Jerusalem. Yes, waste places. In Jeremiah 30 and 31, the time of Jacob's trouble, it says the city will again be built upon
24:14 -  its heaps. And in one of my debates with my messianic and other so-called prophetic kinsmen in the land where I'm no longer welcomed, this brother insisted that this rebuilding is now taking place. Look, he said, look at the earth moving equipment. This is that fulfillment.
24:35 -  I said, but damn man, read the text. The text says the city will be rebuilt upon its heaps as unto the Lord. There's a little difference there between this present building, which is unto Israel, unto man, as against unto the Lord. And what is rising now will be part
24:58 -  of the heaps and part of the desolation. How would you like to bear a message like that? That's how you tell the truth. One of the ways of telling true prophets from false, they'll not hold back on messages of impending doom to bring warning and hopeful salvation
25:17 -  to those who say, peace, peace, when there is no peace and believe in the inviolability of Zion, excuse my language, which means that how can God destroy Jerusalem? It's his city. You mean he's going to bring them back from Russia and Ethiopia in order to face a wholesale
25:37 -  devastation and expulsion? Yes. How far will God go? Well, when the time Jesus arrives at the end of all of this, two thirds of all Israel have already perished. And one third, it says, will pass through the fire in coming to the Lord. We will be offended with God's
26:01 -  judgments and those who know his judgments and not just respect them and tolerate them as I guess, well, if he feels it's necessary, but loves his judgments, even in their severity, that one is a lover of God. Because when his judgments are in the earth, the world will
26:24 -  learn righteousness. His judgments are not arbitrary. He's not a God who's teed off, what's the word, easily peaked or just expressing some kind of personal vexation. His judgments, his wrath and his fury issue out of the deepest nature of what he is in himself as righteous.
26:46 -  And if it has to come upon his own people, it will come and it will come in the measure that he intends so that the redeemed of the Lord will return to Zion with everlasting joy upon their heads and mourning and sighing, fleeing away. May not be many, but they will
27:05 -  constitute the redeemed nation. God is not interested in numbers. And it may well be that the church itself will be reduced to a remnant. So break forth and sing together ye waste places of Jerusalem. Why should waste places of Jerusalem sing? Because they know
27:33 -  that the judgment of the devastation precedes the upbuilding and the being rooted and established and the glory of God that shall come to a exalted nation. Not because they deserve it. We certainly don't. And he tells us quite clearly in Ezekiel 36 and other places when
27:57 -  he calls us back to rebuild the cities that have been laid waste and left without an inhabitant and devastated, I'm not doing this for your sake. You who have blasphemed my name in every nation where I've driven you, I'm doing this for my name's sake. That the nations round
28:15 -  about that remain, that survive the regional disaster will recognize that I am the Lord who judges, but also redeems. And it's by my mercy that I have brought back a remnant of my people and will establish them in the land that they'll no longer again be plucked
28:36 -  up or rooted out. If in all my worldwide travels, if I would say there's a single explanation for the lowest state of the church, much lower than you think and know, is for the want or the absence of this kind of consideration of the mystery of Israel and the church, which
28:59 -  Paul speaks of in Romans 11. You don't have it. You can't obtain it by the will of God. Exercise of will or intellect. If it's a mystery, it has to be revealed and given. But so long as you are in this pompous hyperbolic worship state, so called, it is completely, what shall
29:23 -  I say, inappropriate to revelation. To receive the revelation of the mystery of Israel, of which Paul was a steward, I would say requires as a minimum a broken and a contrite spirit, a certain disposition, a certain sense of the imminence of tragedy and devastation that
29:46 -  you've glimpsed in scripture and a willingness to bear that and not fault God. So it's amazing the absence of that knowledge, the absence of that revelation that is universal in the church, even among its most gifted teachers. I've met them. I know them. And they confess
30:06 -  to me, God, I just don't understand. Romans 9 to 11. It's a complete blank to me, especially Romans 11. And yet they're gifted and insightful in many other places. But here, they're non-compassmentist. And yet Paul says, I would not have you to be ignorant here, because for the ignorant
30:25 -  here is to become wise in your own conceit. This brings a penalty. The absence of the apprehension of this mystery, of the necessary suffering, decline, abasement, death, exaltation and resurrection of a nation has got to come by revelation. And if you don't believe in
30:49 -  it, if you lack that, you'll be very prone to sentimental and other kinds of equivalents, exaggerated notion of yourself as the church actually being the kingdom, or what is even worse that you're actually the Israel of God. There are many forms that this can take. There's
31:10 -  something about the mystery, fighting the bullet, receiving the understanding of judgment, death and suffering. Did you understand that Jesus at the cross was suffering judgment? He was made sin? He suffered the judgment for sin? And that's why he was so personally
31:32 -  devastated? The cross is a statement of the judgments of God that had to be fulfilled, which no animal's blood could have ever sufficed, but the blood of a righteous son of God freely and voluntarily bearing the anguish of that judgment to save us from the necessity of
31:55 -  experiencing it. But I'll tell you the saints, if we don't understand it as judgment, what in fact have we understood and received? If we have only a shallow apprehension of atonement, Jesus suffered for my sins, I don't know what you've reduced it to, some kind of formula,
32:17 -  every subsequent thing will remain shallow. And in fact, if there's anything that has suffered abuse, neglect and distortion, in this world of deception, it is the cross. It is the crucifixion of Jesus, of which Paul said, I refuse to know anything that Christ
32:39 -  and him crucified, because that's the sum, the nub, the nexus of all reality. God has come down in his son into the earth to bear this penalty for all sinful mankind of every time and generation, and bear the anguish not only the physical devastation, but the moral
33:01 -  and the worst part, the separation from his own father. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Was maybe the most intense point of that suffering, and yet as singular and as great and as ethical as the issue of the cross is, as the very nub and matrix of all
33:21 -  reality, it has suffered the greatest loss. Maybe you have to be prophetic to see that. Listen, you dear saints, I don't know what keeps me sane. I cannot bear the world. I can't bear to sit in the waiting rooms of the vets at the clinic there where we were
33:41 -  this morning and look at the advertisements on the TV or the things that are being celebrated for Halloween. I want to shriek and cry out and pull out the plug. The elections that are going on, what is this masquerade, this blah, blah, blah nonsense, and these commentators
33:56 -  pontificating as if they're making comment of the most solemn and wise kind when they're reading a script. It's a whole phony baloney play acting that is utterly false, and millions of lives are predicated on it because the root of all reality has been lost, which is
34:14 -  the crucifixion of Jesus. It's the single greatest act in the history of the world, and God is going to give mankind another opportunity to review it in the suffering of Israel itself. I've never heard anybody have the chutzpah. You know what that word
34:36 -  means? You don't know what chutzpah means? Have you been a witness to Jews? Chutzpah is temerity and boldness to suggest that Isaiah 53 is not only an acute description of the suffering of the Lord, but the suffering of his nation that shall subsequently follow
35:04 -  him in the same path to Calvary which he himself trod, and do it globally so that the world can view again what Jesus suffered as they see it revealed and expressed within the nation itself. Because what are we Jews about if we are not witnesses unto God? But who ever
35:26 -  thought that we would be this kind of a witness? So follow me. Are you patient? The Lord has made bearers hold the arm, in verse 10, in the eyes of all the nations. This will not be in the corner, and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God.
35:44 -  My servant shall deal prudently. He shall be exalted, exalted very high. In verse 13, many were astonished at thee. His visage, his face was so marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men. So shall he sprinkle many nations. The king shall
35:59 -  shut their mouths of him, for that which they had not been told them shall they see, and that which they had not heard shall they consider. So I'm taking a little prophetic liberty here to say that's not only a description of Jesus, it's a future description of the
36:18 -  nation that follows in his steps, that they shall sprinkle many nations. Their blood does not constitute atonement, but it's a reiteration of the suffering of Messiah Jesus that needs to be acted out against mankind, because they didn't get the point the first time, because
36:40 -  they have trivialized the cross, because they have dismissed it from real consciousness. They need to glimpse the actuality of suffering of a servant people who are marred more than any man, and have no beauty that any should desire them. That's a picture of the Jew and
37:02 -  Israel globally in the time of Jacob's trouble, and has to be, as it shall be demonstrated before all nations, because this is the revelation of the salvation of God. The Jews do not constitute that salvation in experiencing the suffering of a kindred kind. They merely illustrate
37:24 -  it and reiterate it afresh for the consideration of those for whom it has not been told them they shall now see and now consider. How far will God go to give mankind one last opportunity to consider his sacrifice, and if it requires its reiteration to the nation
37:49 -  Israel, unconsciously and yet depicting that suffering of the kind that he bore, that people begin to sense. We are seeing an enactment of what we missed 2,000 years ago, and have not only dismissed it, but sentimentalized it, and made Jesus to look like a ballet dancer,
38:10 -  nicely, what's the word, covered on the cross. We have sentimentalized and robbed the horror of the event which dismisses it. So they need to see again the brute horror, the brute reality, the pain, the suffering, as it will be acted out before them by Jews as they are dispersed
38:34 -  to all nations. I have never heard anybody else preach this. So pray for me, either I'm going off the deep end, or I am a lonely and singular voice a little bit ahead of the time and have caught glimpse of something that I think the Lord will one day soon confirm.
38:56 -  For that which had not been told them, really told them, shall they see, see it, actually see it, and that which they had not heard, shall they consider. And not only they, but Jews themselves and Israel themselves shall consider that which they have up to now rejected,
39:17 -  because the single cardinal sin of Judaism is the absolute dismissal of the crucifixion of Jesus as non-event. It's as if it had never taken place, or if it took place, it's just the unfortunate thing that happened to a presumer who got himself in trouble with Roman authority
39:39 -  and suffered flatulation and death and has no greater significance for Jews than anything else. Too bad about that. Oh, dear saints, the rejection of Christ crucified is the loss of eternal salvation. It's the loss of the revelation of a triune God, for nowhere is
40:03 -  he more profoundly revealed than at the cross. When the Son gives his life through the grace of the eternal Spirit without spot to the Father, you have the action of all three persons of the Godhead that we Jews to this day applaud ourselves by resisting any reference to a
40:26 -  triune God. What is he, three Gods? And we maintain the image of the monotheistic God. Well, what we are maintaining is a warped and, what's the word, unfaithful and inaccurate concept of God, because not to see God as triune is not to see God as God. And the place
40:54 -  to see him as triune profoundly is at the cross. So the dismissal of the cross, the dismissal of the crucifixion, the sweeping it under the carpet, living 2,000 years as if it did not take place, going into the synagogues on Yom Kippur and the dovening and praying
41:13 -  and going through their prayer books. I was with them in Brooklyn this Yom Kippur, in the Crown Heights community, Lubavitch Hasidim, wearing my black suit and hat, except for the want of a beard that looked just like them. And my heart goes out to them, they
41:29 -  doven, they pray, they're sincere, they think their sincerity and their prayer actually constitutes an equivalent for the blood. But you never hear a reference to Leviticus 1711 without the shedding of blood, there is no remission for sin, there's no sacrifice, there's
41:46 -  no priesthood, there's no temple. What's the Yom Kippur? It's a rabbinical innovation that if you spend the day in the synagogue fasting and praying and give money for good deeds mitzvot that that is an acceptable sacrifice unto God. Who says so? The rabbis who one
42:11 -  day have to stand before God and face Him in His wrath and indignation as judge when they shall see Him and His wounds and look into the face of Him that will be so fearful that men will cry for rocks to hide them and places in caves to conceal them from the face
42:31 -  of the wrath of God that comes. So it's a blessing if God would give us a glimpse of what we have up from now historically rejected. And here's what I'm saying, not only will nations be benefited who have not seen and not heard at the suffering of the Jews passing
42:51 -  through who have no beauty that any would desire them and their faces are marred more than any man, but the Jew himself in bearing that and the mutuality of suffering catches a glimpse of what Jesus Himself bore and for the first time begin to understand His atonement
43:13 -  and receive the benefit of that understanding. Look at this, who has believed our report in Isaiah 53, for whom is the honor of the Lord revealed? He should work before them as a tender plant, as a root out of the dry ground. He has no form nor comeliness. They
43:28 -  have no form, no external appearance and when we shall see them there is no beauty that we should desire them. Should I then have taken the liberty of going from a first person singular to a plural, but the principle is the same. They will experience the same rejection
43:47 -  and be as undesirable in the eyes of the Gentiles as He was before His own nation. They will be despised and rejected of men. They will be a people of sorrows and acquainted with grief and we hid as it were our faces from Him. He was despised and we esteemed Him not.
44:07 -  Surely He hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem Him stricken, spitten of God and afflicted, but He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon Him and with His stripes we are healed.
44:24 -  All we like sheep have gone astray. Oh, you dear saints, on the day that Israel, my people, speak like this, don't look to see me anyplace else but on my face dissolved in tears. The Lord is waiting for this kind of broken acknowledgement of the meaning of the suffering of their Messiah.
44:46 -  He was afflicted for our transgression. He bore our iniquities. He was smitten of God and afflicted for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon Him. What Jew has ever said that or seen that and acknowledged that
45:05 -  except those few like myself who are a remnant before the time? The nation's self has not yet come to this seeing and here's what I'm saying. It will take the mutuality of suffering for them to see it. Suffering reveals, oh, I know you're too well insulated, you're too
45:24 -  American, you're too soft, you're too pampered. You avoid suffering. There's something about authentic suffering. I'm not talking about self-inflicted, self-pitying, romantic. There's a value there. Something happens in suffering and what I'm saying is this. These Jews will
45:46 -  be uprooted from Toronto and New York City and Chicago and all the places of comfort and affluence that we have obtained and suddenly find ourselves out with only the rags on our back and being led somehow down the back alleys and back roads and wilderness places of the
46:05 -  nations for three and a half years being sifted will open to us an illumination because suffering strips away veneer. Suffering strips away externalities. Suffering strips away make-belief and this whole world is full of make-belief. It's all hokum. It's all a play and much of
46:25 -  it is in Christianity itself, religion itself, more than we know. But suffering strips away, the wilderness strips away. It reduces man's suffering. It reduces man's suffering. It reduces man to the ultimate considerations of those things that are eternal from which
46:49 -  he has been shielded by the easy affinities of the world which he has enjoyed and are always available to keep him from having to reflect upon and look into the depths of things because listen, do you know that Jews have no sense of eternity? They don't know. That's
47:08 -  why they make their fortunes in this life. They want to leave behind something of an impressive kind because after this life there's nothing. They have no notion of heaven nor of hell. What a surprise it's going to be to them. The world has robbed Jews and Jews
47:28 -  are the statement of the world and its modern spirit and temper of any sense of eternity and given to this life an emphasis far out of proportion to its value. Can you see that? Can you express that? Can you challenge worldlings and show them that they're caught up in a
47:50 -  net, in a contradiction, in a deception and their life is being spit out in drabs and that at the end of it there's an eternal anguish of soul if they don't see the issue of truth and righteousness and sin and suffering in Christ? So I'm saying that in the time
48:08 -  of Jacob's trouble uprooted Jews, marred, beat up, pursued relentlessly by Islamic courts who will not be satisfied with anything else but their annihilation will be an object that people will not desire to see or to touch. They'll have no beauty that we should perceive
48:34 -  them. They'll be marred more than any man who will have a stomach for them, only those who have a stomach for Jesus at the cross and have not idealized and romanticized him and could take the brute fact of their suffering and his suffering and love him in the midst
48:55 -  of it and love them in the midst of it even though they are not externally attractive and they themselves, when they're beat like that and suffering sorrows and griefs and then realize he has borne our griefs, he's carried our sorrows and we did this thing,
49:22 -  we prepared him, stricken, smitten of God and afflicted but he was wounded for our transgressions. We're going through this as a consequence of our sin but he went through it to bear our sin, to bear our transgressions, to remove our iniquities, the chastisement of our pieces
49:40 -  upon him and with the stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Tell me, I'll give you a dollar, ten dollars, I'll give you a hundred. When's the last
49:58 -  time you've ever heard a Jew talk like that? The iniquity of us all, do they even know what iniquity is and do they know it corporately as a nation and to acknowledge it? That we have gone astray, all we like sheep have gone astray? Yes, the best, the famous, the richest,
50:20 -  the most powerful CEOs in finance and Wall Street and Steven Spielberg and movie makers and Barbara Streisand and all of the hot shots of that elite cultural segment have all gone astray but they don't see it until they're smitten and stricken and in that mutuality
50:42 -  of suffering they begin to perceive what he bore. Oh, it's for our iniquities he bore that. With his stripes we are healed. Jews will be saved in the wilderness of the nations when believers to whom they will come will explain to them their present affliction as
51:06 -  mirroring and reflecting the affliction of one who has gone before them and who will now save them if they'll receive the atonement that he wrought in that affliction. Okay, well let me bring this to a close. He was oppressed in verse seven, he was afflicted
51:26 -  yet he opened not his mouth. What a contrast to what they will be doing. They will open their mouths, they'll moan, they'll groan, they'll complain and then they'll recognize that he was brought as a lamb to the slaughter and as sheep before her she was his son.
51:40 -  He opened not his mouth. He was taken from prison, from judgment. Who shall declare his generation? For he was cut off out of the land of the living for the transgression of my people was he stricken, made a grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death
51:55 -  because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth, yet it pleased the Lord. He has put him to grief and when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall
52:07 -  see his seed, he shall prolong his days and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. If we had all kinds of time and another kind of atmosphere, maybe of a more studious kind, smaller audience, more intensive, I would show you the different voices that
52:25 -  are expressed in Isaiah 53. The prophet is speaking, Israel is speaking and now God is speaking and we need to distinguish each one because it's appropriate in its place. Many of us will balk over this. Many of us will be as Peter and say, Lord, let this be far
52:46 -  from you. Let this be far from Israel. I like the Jews. Have they suffered enough already? Let they themselves tread the path to Calvary and be marred more than any man, be rejected and despised. Let this be far from them. You know what the Lord will say? Get thee behind
53:07 -  me Satan for you savor, you stink from that which is not from God but from man. It reeks from sentimentality. It wants an easier way. It wants accommodation and progressive amelioration and improvement. It balks, it resists, it doesn't like apocalyptic scenarios of suffering
53:29 -  death, resurrection and redemption. It's man. And in Luke chapter 24, the resurrected Christ makes his appearance and they were still full of doubt and unbelief. He said unto them in verse 25, O fools in slow thought, to believe all that the prophets have spoken,
53:53 -  ought not Christ who has suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself and I would say tonight and concerning Israel. What was appropriate
54:16 -  for the Lord is will be appropriate for the nation for it has a destiny like unto his to be exalted above all nations, to be a priestly nation, to bless all the families of the earth but they've got to go down before they come up. O fools of slow thought, not to believe
54:38 -  all that the prophets have written. This isn't some last moments innovation. This is central to the whole wisdom of God. This is intrinsic to reality itself. The son of God was not exempt from necessity for suffering and death and resurrection and ascension and glory neither
54:55 -  shall Israel be. What you thought they should be progress, they shall progressively improve? That's how humanistic you are. It's not an issue of improvement. It's an issue of resurrection out from death, out from suffering. It's an issue of exaltation out from the basement.
55:17 -  How else can they be entrusted to be the locus of his theocratic rule out of Zion? How shall they go to all nations and all nations come to them if they still have the Jewish pride and self-righteousness? It needs to be ground to powder for the devastations through which
55:38 -  they will pass in the last days and the knowledge of God that however stinking our track record has been and it is unbelievably abysmal that he has saved us, restored us and exalted us not because of our merit but because he will have mercy upon whom he will have mercy. Not
55:57 -  because of our deserving but because he will elect whom he will elect. Because he has chosen Zion not because it's the greatest but because it's the least. Got the understanding? There's a great drama of an ideological kind that exalts man or God that we need to understand
56:17 -  that's caught up in the final issue of Israel before the nations. Well, God forbid that we should have to hear his rebuke, oh fools and slow of heart. Not to believe what all the prophets have written, what is intrinsic to the faith, what was there from the beginning
56:36 -  and is through every page. Paul speaks of it eloquently, of the suffering that precedes the glory. How then should we have imagined that this nation succeed out of its own prowess and ability to establish its statehood? Is that the issue or is it the issue of his glory
56:57 -  forever through a people whose calling, gift and calling is irrevocable and without repentance to be a nation of priests and a light unto the world? You do err because you have not understood Israel's destiny and you have been satisfied merely with her success, you craven
57:21 -  bopping Christians. You have not understood that the issue is not success either for you or for them. The issue is his glory forever and it proceeds only out of one place, a suffering that must come before it. So let's pray. I hope I've ruined you tonight. Lord Jesus,
57:44 -  only to the degree that I have sounded your heart and opened a whole realm and mode of consideration long overdue from the church that will save it from its shallowness, save it from its sentimentality, save it from its false hopes of the improvement of Israel as
58:10 -  if it's a humanistic venture by which men can progressively come through their own merit and not realize that what is of man can never have any value, can never be the basis for a millennial or eternal glory but only that which issues out of a life of God, the exaltation
58:32 -  of God by a people who are raised up out of a death that is deserved in judgment and will come. So bless the church, Lord. This sobers us. This saves us from sentimentality. This saves us from shallowness. I thank you for the personal salvation for me, that I'm not
58:51 -  open and immune to soulish influence because I have bitten the bullet, because I have seen the judgments of God in Scripture and in Israel and I have rejoiced for it and received it as central, necessary, all wise and all righteous and somehow when you take that into your spirit
59:15 -  and submit to the judgments of God, particularly as it comes against its people and runs across the grain of your sentimental desire for their easier success, you have something new that has entered your soul and saved you from the deception of soulishness which is the
59:36 -  greatest threat to the church in these last days. I have attended Indian conferences in Ottawa where they set up the microphones that people should repent for the injustices and they came crying and weeping and I said they're like a stone, unmoved and I knew it would
59:57 -  come and I was being driven home by the brother who had invited me with his wife. He said how did you like the service man? I said I didn't. It was a soulish performance. It availed nothing but to arouse the sentiment of people and bring a little tear to their eye. They
01:00:16 -  might enjoy a kind of pseudo repentance. It was too structured. It was too structured and I thought to myself how is it that you were the only one in that room totally unmoved? It went over you without touching you just like tonight's worship and I found that the
01:00:39 -  answer was because the judgments of God are deeply written in my MMM. I love his judgments. To love his judgments is to love him. Nothing more reveals him than his righteousness especially when he will not withhold it with his own people. But his last word is not judgment.
01:01:02 -  His last word is mercy. But what is mercy except that it's preceded by judgment? This is God's provision to save us from the deception of soulishness in the last days and you have not that advantage because you have not bitten the bullet. So I'm praying for you tonight.
01:01:23 -  Lord, don't confuse and bewilder these people. Let them go home. Let them read again Isaiah 53. Let them hear the tape if there's a tape being made. Let them reconsider. Let them acknowledge what a shallow piece of goods I've been Lord. I'm so easily manipulated.
01:01:40 -  I can be brought to a high activity. I like the calisthenics. I like the jumping in the good time. But if I have to face adversity and trial and challenge in the last days or to be to these people who are despised, I would probably collapse. I don't have the
01:01:57 -  inward strength. I can't bear suffering. So I'm asking that you would help me Lord. Put iron in my soul. Give me an understanding of the last days as you yourself see it and fit the church for that reality. Take from us that bumptious happy frolic that so much
01:02:17 -  characterizes us and bring a sober note, a deep note even in our rejoicing. So we bless you Lord for your way, for the things that are yet to come to pass in our generation and our time. May we not fail you in being to that people, those who see in their suffering
01:02:38 -  the least of your brethren, yourself, and extend mercy that they might receive mercy. We thank and give you praise in Jesus' name and God's people's safety.