Israel Gods Prodigal Son

00:00 -  Wait, my God, upon Your instruction, Your dear things, my God, as only You can exposit them. So be with us, my God, as You were with Your disciples of old, and communicating to them and to us, Lord, the things that are dear to Your own heart and important for our understanding
00:19 -  in this particular historic moment in all that lies before. Lest this time, my God, make it utterly significant, You know us. You know us. We're always asking that You'll make it historic.
00:30 -  And how often, if not always, You answer in that way. So bless this now, Lord, and be with Your own word. Open it, Lord, that it might be made fruitful and engrafted, consequential for time and eternity.
00:46 -  We thank You and give You praise in Yeshua's name. Amen. Well, you can turn to Luke chapter 15. In chapter 16, we're going to take a little fleeting look at the parable of the two sons,
00:59 -  the prodigal son and his resentful brother. But let me read this to you while you're turning. Maybe it's like a summation or a summary of a whole perspective that the Lord is giving us to communicate.
01:18 -  The people Israel, whose theocratic, Davidic kingdom it is, must be made consonant with that kingdom. To administer it in the distinctive character of the king, obtained only in a national resurrection from the dead, they must pass like Jesus before them, the patterned son, through a road to Calvary, a highway of holiness,
01:47 -  and later through the very gentle nations that reject them so as to dispense mercy through grace and humility as the priestly nation that overcomes evil with good and judgment with mercy, so revealing the God of Jacob that all nations might praise and honor Him as Lord over all.
02:07 -  This everlasting exultation as the head of all nations is obtained out of a final abasement and humiliation at the time of Jacob's trouble by which transgressors and rebels are purged out and they purged and purified to become the redeemed of the Lord returned to Zion.
02:27 -  That redeemed Israel saved out of death by the eternal beneficiaries of an essentially gentile church who prevailed for its birth, cherished its rubble and stones, and had pity for its dust. In full identification with the nation in its chastisement and judgment,
02:48 -  we're going to be speaking about that today, the key by which deliverance comes to them out of Zion. The present state of Israel is the preliminary and matrix out of which the millennial nation comes, having had final opportunity to contrast the land given as an inheritance
03:07 -  and maintained in covenant righteousness itself a gift and Jerusalem the city of peace from the bloodshed, violence and corruption that inevitably issues out of autonomous and proud men of which we Jews are the epitome.
03:24 -  A very changed nature is itself a standard raised up before all nations and a light to which they can come out of the thick gloom and darkness which presently covers the earth. Not bad.
03:41 -  What a summary on this part of the whole mystery of Israel and the Church of which Paul said, I would not have you to be ignorant lest you become wise in your own conceit. It's one of the few or only mysteries I know that the ignorance of which carries a supreme penalty.
04:00 -  And I would say that that penalty is visibly evident today in the Church. The Church is conceited, inflated, pompous, because the one thing that would have tempered it and brought a note of humility into its character and given it an understanding of the perspective of God
04:18 -  has been lost to it because it doesn't know the mystery. It's this mystery that is so utterly profound in revealing very God himself. And it's the final and last days mystery.
04:30 -  There's nothing that that follows this. This is the end is the mystery of Israel and the Church, the reciprocity between these two bodies. The Church is so ignorant that it can't even understand itself or come into its own identity
04:48 -  or the fullness of its own call and purpose, the realization of God for it, independent of and separated from the people of Israel. And it's the people that we would not have chosen as a Gentile Church.
05:01 -  They would have been for us instinctively and historically undesirable. And how about Israel taught the Church equally? If there's anything that's anathema for Jews, it's the Church.
05:14 -  They can't bear even to pass under the shadow of the spire and the cross that might fall upon them in walking on the street. I don't care what polite external air they might communicate.
05:26 -  There is a deep Jewish enmity against the Church, against Christ. Ironically, the very thing calculated for their salvation is the thing that is most offensive. Why is that?
05:40 -  Satan has seen to it that there is only one name given whereby a man might be saved, but that name has been so polluted and corrupted for Jews that they can barely speak it, except as an irritation or even a curse word.
05:54 -  How many times have I said Jesus Christ as an unbeliever, like spitting something out, but never able to call upon that name reverently? Because history has so affected the way in which we Jews even perceive the name.
06:08 -  We have been persecuted in that name. We've been stretched at the rack, burned at the stake, forced conversions, a threat of violence or death, mass suicides.
06:20 -  It's not unusual in the history of Israel, particularly in Europe through the Middle Ages, when their doors were being battered down by the crusading knights on the way to the Holy Land or an enraged mob in the Passover Easter season,
06:33 -  calling for the conversion of Jews with their death that Jews prefer death. Can you imagine a father slitting the throat of his own children and that of his wife and then of himself that when the doors finally burst down and they came rushing in,
06:48 -  they found the sea of dead swamped in their own blood. And this is called Kiddush Hashem, sanctifying the name of the Lord by taking your own life rather than becoming a Christian.
07:01 -  The cards are stacked against us. History has conspired against the fulfillment of this mystery that the one people appointed to be the provision of God for Israel's redemption is the Church.
07:15 -  And yet the Church has become so horrific and distasteful to the people who would most be benefited by it. And then what shall we say of the enmity that is natural and organic between Gentiles and Jews? Even if they were not this history, there's something in the composition of what we are as Jews and Gentiles
07:35 -  that is antithetical one to the other. Let's not get democratic and say, no, there's no distinction between Jews and Gentiles. Bolani, you have only to be a Jew and be married to a Gentile to know how great those distinctions are.
07:51 -  We can't even identify them, but they're very real. It's just the Lord has made it that way so that in the mystery of God, that which in the natural would most militate against any kind of resolution or reconciliation
08:06 -  is the very thing that God is seeking to obtain and can only be obtained by His power. He has so set the situation that there be no resolution of it except through the manifestation of Himself. This mystery cannot be humanly resolved, fulfilled or established.
08:25 -  It requires the utter and final supreme demonstration of God as God. And by that demonstration, He will be glorified before the face of all nations. He's not going to do this in the corner, but before the face of all nations.
08:41 -  So the stink of Israel is already becoming an international scandal, and it will get worse as it goes on. Those who had sentimental affection for Israel or were excited about the prospect of the state of Israel being born and had hope that it would exhibit to the world what a Jewish nation is are increasingly and daily becoming disappointed.
09:06 -  And it will worsen and worsen. It will come to such a point that those who were the most animated in their identification in support of Israel may well be the first ones to turn in complete disgust and contempt for a nation that has failed them
09:24 -  and disappointed them in their expectations. And in that way, God will reveal the shabbiness of shallow, sentimental affinity as against that relationship that God calls the church that had with Israel that cannot be disappointed
09:39 -  because it's not enacted at the level of human enthusiasm or idealism or sentiment, but at the level of the heart of God Himself, the unconditional love of God. So for the church to fulfill its role and its destiny, it itself has got to come into a place in the knowledge of God
10:02 -  that it would not otherwise have sought nor obtained except that the crisis of Israel has demanded it. And in that way, when the smoke clears at the end, God has a redeemed nation and a transfigured church, both of them now prepared for their eternal mandate with their millennial commission to the nations.
10:23 -  Got the picture? Class dismissed. What a scheme. What a mouthful. OK. So we need to see a few texts that will illuminate these thoughts.
10:43 -  And we're all familiar with the parable of the prodigal son and his brother. And Jesus gave it and spoke that there was a man who had two sons. The younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the share of the property that will belong to me.
11:02 -  So he divided his property between them. A few days later, the young son gathered all that he had and traveled to a distant country. And there he squandered his property in dissolute living. When he had spent everything, a severe famine took place throughout that country and he began to be in need.
11:19 -  I just can't help but interrupt myself. What a coincidence of the timing of that famine. If it's more than coincidence and it's God's timing and even God's provision that he did not think it too extravagant to bring a famine in the land for the sake of one son,
11:37 -  that that famine would set in motion the distress that would bring him to a place before his own father and God that would not otherwise have been obtained. It raises the question, how far will God go for the perfecting and the establishment of a son? It's not too much for him to bring distress to nations, even to upset the world in the bringing forth of the fulfillment of his will for one.
12:04 -  Isn't that remarkable? Of course, if it's a coincidence, then the whole point is lost. But if God is sovereign and famines that come upon nations are not coincidental but part of the divine stratagem and provision, then it ought to give us pause. How far will God go in the perfection of a son?
12:27 -  How far has he already gone with us? How far will he yet go? And those things that we have dismissed as seemingly coincidental or circumstantial, were really the sovereignty of God, divinely ordained. It's staggering.
12:42 -  No wonder we have so little appreciation for the love of God, because we have missed how explicit he has been in his dealing and shaping of us, which we thought was merely circumstantial. But it's really the sovereign and explicit will of God being performed, which is the love of God. Though it's a distress. It's such a love that it will not shrink from bringing distress.
13:08 -  See how mamby-pamby we are? We think love means making nice. Well, that's the difference between the false prophets and the true. The false prophets want to make nice. They want to speak a word of peace, even when there is no peace.
13:21 -  They heal the wounds or the sickness of my daughter, likely, Jeremiah says, of the false prophets. They want to make nice. They're condescending. A pat on the back. A cheap, full gospel bear hug. Or in the foyer of the church, hi brother. It's not a brother.
13:39 -  That's the shallow level at which most of the church is living its life. No wonder it doesn't know God. It's a puff. It's a vapor. And they call that love. Love is willing to inflict. Love will not shrink from the pain necessary for ultimate redemptive ends.
13:59 -  Nor will it interfere with the operation of God toward those ends by getting in the way to make nice or to bring a premature word of comfort, which will actually upset or offset the redemptive work of God through the trial that he's bringing. My heart goes out to Christian wives living with either backslidden or unsaved husbands
14:21 -  who have to suffer them in that pitiful and wretched condition in which they themselves are the victim and fear even for the safety of their own children as these men work out with angered vexation and violence, the contradictions of their own life, and want so much to intervene.
14:37 -  In other words, they can only do something, to leave scriptures around in the bathroom and on the toilet and hope that he'll pick this up. They want an end to their distress. They want to see this guy saved already.
14:50 -  Because when he does get saved, they have to run to keep up with him. And they almost prefer him in his previous condition than his present condition. But to watch a man die by inches before you and foam in frustration and discontent
15:09 -  as the contradictions of his life bring him to a final paroxysm is something. Love will bear that. Love will not seek to ease him of his distress. It will want to see the distress work through unto a real salvation.
15:26 -  And not the least of that, what love has to bear is not only the pain of that, but the reproach that will come from others who will accuse you, ironically, of lovelessness. Because shouldn't you be doing something? Hey, listen, your wife is suffering.
15:39 -  Shouldn't you alleviate? Shouldn't you make nice? Shouldn't you comfort? Not if that is going to get in the way of the redemptive working of God, which is necessarily painful. It's a suffering before a glory.
15:54 -  How come we don't know that? Because we have fallen short of the knowledge that would have been communicated to us through the appropriation of the cross. Once we had surrendered to that and understood that not only as the experience of Jesus,
16:09 -  but the pivotal and classic paradigm for all reality, then we would see its outworking in those who are close by us and we would not resist it. We would understand necessarily that there's a suffering that precedes a glory.
16:24 -  We would not hope for anything premature. We would not be satisfied with an improvement or a progressive amelioration. We're waiting for the glory. We're apostolic. We're jealous for the glory, unto him be glory in the Church,
16:39 -  not satisfaction, not alleviation. Got the idea? And there's no issue for us at the Church in our generation this last hour that more tests us on this issue than the subject of Israel itself.
16:54 -  Our greatest adversaries who are out for our lives, who hate our guts, are those who are endorsing and believing in the present state of Israel as somehow being the hope for fulfillment in prophecy.
17:07 -  And read the scriptures in such a way as to endorse their view. And have very scant patience where anyone says, no, present Israel is only the preliminary. It only was given by God to set in motion the crisis out of which the suffering
17:23 -  and dispersal and the violence and last days apocalyptic judgment that must take place and have its inception in Israel then will be end come. Then will there be a restored nation that will glorify God.
17:38 -  So you see the friction between those who want to make nice and want to endorse the present thing and hope for its progressive amelioration. That means improvement as against those who are holding still like Jesus
17:50 -  when he was told that his friend Lazarus was sick, remained two days longer where he was, sufficient for Lazarus to die. What kind of a friend is that who raised the dead of strangers
18:03 -  and healed the sick of people who didn't know and doesn't rush to the bedside of his own friend of which the scripture says whom he loved? What kind of love is that? It's the love of God.
18:16 -  That's what kind of love that is. That doesn't want to put a bandaid on something or a quickie but knows that this suffering is not unto death but for the glory of God and his son.
18:31 -  He waited for Lazarus to die. And meanwhile, what did his disciples think? This guy is cowardly. This master and teacher,
18:42 -  he's beginning to show something now that we need to pray for him. He's afraid to go to Bethany because it's only a stone's throw from Jerusalem where his life has been threatened.
18:53 -  So he's saving his own skin. His skin and his own survival and the preservation of his own life is more important than suckering his friend on a sickbed unto death.
19:05 -  It shows his true colors. They never said that, but I'll bet you doubts the donuts. They thought it.
19:12 -  How else would they interpret a man who delays from bringing the relief that he's so readily able to bring? Why is he delaying? It must be the fear of his own skin
19:23 -  because they're projecting on him what would have been their own rationale. See what I mean? And Jesus was willing to suffer that misunderstanding and that reproach.
19:34 -  Fidelity to God, particularly in a patience for suffering without interfering, is an ultimate test of sainthood. In fact, I would say it's the test of sonhood, sonship.
19:48 -  And had he not done that, had he gone prematurely and acted out of his human impulse to bring relief, which would have blessed everyone,
19:59 -  when the day would have come for him to stand outside that tomb and cry, Lazarus, come forth, you know what would have come forth? A dull thud, zero, zilch, nothing.
20:10 -  The only reason Lazarus came forth is because God the Father honored the prophetic obedience of his son who waited until death. And the issue of Israel is exactly that issue.
20:24 -  Those who are running now to bring comfort. Well, doesn't it say, comfort ye, comfort ye my people? Yes, it says that.
20:32 -  After they have suffered double for their sins, premature comfort is from the pit. So that's why I'm at war with sentimentality.
20:49 -  I despise sentimentality. It's the last refuge of man. And he gets away with it because it has an outward appearance of good.
20:59 -  Who doesn't want schmaltzy sentimentality and benevolence and nice things and things that feel good? And therefore it disguises the evil root of it, man, wanting recognition,
21:13 -  wanting alleviation from distress, and ignoring the issue of those things that pertain to the glory of God. It's as vile and as evil and as wicked as anything that can issue from the pit.
21:27 -  But men get away with it because it has the appearance of good. Only a son, a discerning son and a prophet, knows the difference and will be obedient not to interfere and not to alleviate,
21:40 -  knowing that the issue is not recovery of a man from his distress or a nation from his distress, but that the issue is a nation restored or brought forth out of that death
21:51 -  unto resurrection and glory forever. The greatest impediment to the love of God is human sentiment. Nothing more obtrudes upon and displaces the divine working
22:06 -  and the expression of the love of God than human sentiment. We have got to die to the one in order to be available to the other. And it's a no man's land between the death of the one and the attainment of the other.
22:20 -  It's not going to come in with a rush and all of a sudden you're going to abound in divine love because you have brought sentiment unto death.
22:29 -  Likely will be tested and there'll be nothing to have replaced sentiment, but you're face sticking out without an excuse and you'll appear to be the most loveless, hard, indifferent
22:43 -  and all the other kinds of things that men will be quick to note and to say. That's part of the death. The bearing of the reproach of that is part of the death.
22:52 -  So the issue, as is every issue in the last analysis, is the issue of the cross. And so I'm saying again that with the crisis of Israel in the last days, the Church is going to be tested on its response.
23:08 -  And it may well be that the true Church from the false, the apostate from the apostolic will be decided on this question. And that men will kill us and claim they're doing God a service
23:21 -  because we're opposed to the purposes of God for Israel and will even be accused of being anti-Semitic by those who want to rush in and to alleviate the stress and bring an immediate answer that is not God's.
23:35 -  I'm called that now. I'm Jewish and I'm called an anti-Semite. I'm called an enemy of Israel and giving aid to her enemies by saying that there's a future for Israel that's apocalyptic
23:49 -  in devastation, judgment, and suffering, and that cannot be averted by your prayer. And that if your prayer for Israel and the peace of Jerusalem is shabby and sentimental, it's not only valueless, it even opposes the truth of God and the work of God.
24:07 -  So shallow saints who thought they were doing God's service because they mumble a prayer once in a while or even every day, Lord, I pray for the peace of Jerusalem and are relieved of their responsibility.
24:18 -  What is an anti-Semite? Anti means against. Semite are Jews, Semitic people. That phrase has come up in modern times. That's the label.
24:29 -  It's Jew hatred, hatred against the Jew, which is, by the way, burgeoning in Russia and in many places of the world today. And watch it even in your own local communities where graffiti is being written on synagogue walls,
24:42 -  tombstones are being knocked over in their cemeteries, and violence being affected even in their halls. The Jewish community is panicking at the increase of the rise of anti-Semitic incidents
24:55 -  in parts of the world that have always been a haven of safety. And interesting to note that many of these places where anti-Semitism is becoming increasingly rife are university and college campuses, where you would think enlightened men,
25:11 -  no, there you have pockets of Nazis who think that they're doing mankind's service by reading it of this blight on mankind which they perceive the Jews to be. One of the great slogans of Nazi Germany,
25:25 -  the Jews are our unglück, misfortune. In these big Nazi rallies they would have this banner all around the auditorium, thousands of people, the Jews are our misfortune.
25:43 -  They're accursed people and wherever they are they're going to be insidious and penetrate your economy and bring it down. They have Zionist conspiracy, they want to take over the world.
25:54 -  Even this thought of Jews taking over the world, the famous anti-Semitic heresy, the piece of literature, what is it called, the protocols of Zion. Are you guys hearing about this for the first time?
26:06 -  Oh my goodness, elementary might be a lot soon. But something you should understand, there's a history of anti-Semitism and isn't it interesting that the guy who shot up those kids in Los Angeles calls himself a Christian
26:21 -  and he comes out of some kind of white church, racial worldwide, worldwide church or something and Jews have to read church, the word church, with murder and say here we go again, it's the old story being enacted again.
26:36 -  So protocols of Zion is a supposed piece of literature that was written by Jews in which they express their plan to take over the world through financial manipulation because look they're in these key places of the economy,
26:56 -  they're like a fraction of 1% of the population but look at their prominence in the government and economy and finance and trade and commerce and they're in influential places. Look at the men who have affected the 20th century, Karl Marx, Sigmund Freud and Albert Einstein, all Jews,
27:13 -  German speaking Jews, which is not an incidental thing. We need to know these things because everything, every factor of history and nature will lend itself to this increasing bitterness against Jews that will one day erupt
27:31 -  even in this country as it did in Nazi Germany. What do you think we're immune because we're Americans, apple pie and mother and that that will insulate us from this poison, this anti-Semitic spirit that comes out of the pitiful?
27:45 -  No way. We will collapse more quickly in America than Germany did because they had Goethe, Schiller, Fichte, Hegel, Nietzsche and Kant and Schopenhauer and Beethoven and Mozart, they had a culture that was so deep
27:58 -  and yet it went down like the proverb of Ducal Cards. What have we got? Babe Ruth and who's the guy who hits 70 hormones and Elvis Presley? Man, we're a cream puff. We go down like that.
28:13 -  Unless we have a spirit in us greater and other than the spirit of racial and religious hatred that will envelop and fill every vacuum that it can find in an unregenerate mankind despite their culture. Got the picture? We're in for something.
28:35 -  How is it that Jews are going to be forced through nations and be expelled and be in exile and not have a shirt on their back that Matthew 25 is the foundation of the final judgment of Gentiles by Jesus when he takes his place as king. His one question in separating the sheep from the goats
28:55 -  is what have you done for the least of these my brethren? Lord, we didn't even know that they were your brethren. They passed right through our communities but they were only despicable Jews who were unsaved and unregenerate
29:08 -  and got what they deserved. See what I mean? Their attitude, how we view them, what we recognize in them and how we extend mercy to them is the determining factor of whether we inherit a kingdom prepared for us
29:24 -  or whether we're cast into the lake of fire prepared for the devil and his angels. What radical alternatives of an eternal kind on the basis of one thing only? Is that fair? But Lord, I did this, I did that, I was a nice guy, I attended services, I went to Venezuela.
29:45 -  Only one question. What did you do for the least of these my brethren? Because that one question is every question. It subsumes everything. Your willingness to extend mercy at a time when it would threaten your own life and peril your family
30:01 -  because who's going to aid Jews in Germany when they're not allowed to sit in parks or to buy or to sell that if a grocery store on the corner sold a quart of milk to a Jew, he's putting his head on the block. His business could be confiscated, he could find himself in a concentration camp for aiding a Jew.
30:21 -  If you think that that was a one-time moment in history that will never come again, you have another think coming. That was the dress rehearsal for something that will now become universal in every nation over this issue of regard to this people who are interestingly proliferated in every nation.
30:42 -  Show me a country in which they are not. I found them in Japan, in the Philippines. It doesn't matter. They're everywhere because it's the working out of God's testing of the nations and of the church of the nations through their very presence.
30:59 -  And if they are not presently in that nation, they'll be passing through that nation in flight from anti-Semitic persecution in the last days called the time of Jacob's trouble. Okay. All of that sparked by this one thing of a famine that came and will come.
31:24 -  It raises the question not only about us but about God. That he's willing to allow a famine merely for the perfecting of one son. Yes, but that one son is the key of the ages. That one son is God's intention for the redemption of nations.
31:42 -  If that son will become a son indeed, if he'll be saved out of his profligate lifestyle and be brought into the service of the Father, that's the Father's key for all nations. Do you realize that? Because Israel has a commission that God has never forgotten.
31:58 -  A nation of priests and a light unto the world. A promise made to Father Abraham that from your loins will come a people who will bless all the families of the earth. Are you being blessed by the son of Abraham?
32:12 -  No big hot shot, but this is only a faint presentiment of the kind of blessing that will come out of a people who are brought into priestliness from out of commerce and Wall Street and buying and selling and all these kinds of things to which Jews have given themselves,
32:31 -  different from and other than their call to be a light unto the nations. Got the picture? The priest shall teach the people the difference between the sacred and the profane. Well, our world is steeped in profanity. I'm not talking about filthy vulgar language.
32:48 -  The whole world is obscene. Its vulgarity and its low morals and its condition has become so commonplace that we don't even look up. This is standard operating procedure. It's vulgar, it's coarse, it's violent, it's deranged. That's the way the world is. Why?
33:06 -  Because there's an absence in its midst of a people who alone are qualified and given by God to be a light to the nations. You remember that of the 12 tribes of Israel, one was a priestly tribe, the Levites, from whom I am personally descended. And their function had nothing to do with commerce, trade, agriculture. They lived from the Lord.
33:30 -  He was their inheritance. And their function was to infiltrate, so to speak, and to bring the benevolence of God. They were the teachers of the Word of God. They taught the law. They were the example. They were the separated people to influence the other 11 tribes, or Israel would not be Israel.
33:49 -  You see what we have in a microcosm? That the Levitical tribe, with regard to the benevolence given to the rest of Israel, is the same principle as the nation of Israel redeemed and given to the nations. We are a people for the nations. How far will God go in the perfecting of that nation for the nations?
34:15 -  He'll go to this degree. But those of us who don't understand what's at stake here, millennially and eternally, and the whole redemptive saga of God for the nations and for His creation, might find ourselves disposed to accuse God as being cruel, unkind, unjust.
34:36 -  Haven't they suffered enough already? Didn't they go through a Holocaust 50 years ago? That they should go through another one within the same century that eclipses the first in its magnitude? Where's God? No wonder that Paul says that the age will conclude with a falling away.
34:54 -  There'll be a great apostasy and a falling away out of disappointment about God, who's not fulfilling the scenario as we thought that He ought. Israel should be established. The Church should be raptured.
35:08 -  When those things fail to happen, disillusion and disappointment might eventually end in rejection. One woman said to me, if there's no rapture, she said, why am I even bothering to be a Christian? The only reason I'm a Christian, she said, is I want to take it out of here.
35:25 -  I don't know if it was the same woman, but it could have been, who said about Israel, who disliked my view of Israel's necessary suffering becoming judgment. But she said that we need Israel because the Church is so dry, so gray.
35:41 -  We need the scintillation that comes with the excitement of being identified with the people who performed the Entebbe crisis. We love the people who are full of human exploits because the Church is so dull and listless.
35:59 -  We like the romantic image of the present day Israeli. And if that is scheduled for judgment and destruction, then what about us? You know, we're left holding the back.
36:10 -  How cheap and selfish are the motives of carnal Christians both toward God and toward Israel as it pertains only to their own satisfaction in being. The complaint that I've heard most frequently from men in ministry in Israel
36:29 -  about my suggestion of a coming devastation in the land and likely expulsion from the land is, but what about my ministry? You can't be right because my ministry is in the land.
36:45 -  So how can God bring judgment? Because my ministry is there and my ministry has got to continue. After all, my ministry is in fact the key to Israel's salvation.
36:56 -  See what I mean? Okay. So it may be that great numbers of Christians who think they're doing God's service in Israel's service are actually praying against the will of God for Israel.
37:06 -  Lord, remove the PLO. Lord, remove Arafat. Lord, when that may be God's very instrumentality, the rod of chastisement will come through an outraged Palestinian people in the Arab nations. They're not to be removed. They're to be employed.
37:21 -  God even calls them my servants. They are consecrated to do my will. Of course, they don't know that. So then the question comes up, how then shall a saint pray?
37:33 -  We thought we would pray lightly. How then shall we pray hard? I said, oh, isn't it interesting? You're brought to a new crisis about your own spiritual life and your own prayer.
37:44 -  You can no longer pray from your natural understanding because that will inevitably bring you in opposition to the purposes and will of God itself. How then shall we pray? There's only one way, maybe ever and always.
37:58 -  By the Spirit. There's a new premium even for Charismatics and Pentecostals to relate to God and to pray out of what God himself gives through the Spirit.
38:14 -  And this is something unknown even to those who ostensibly celebrate the Spirit. Those that are led by the Spirit of God, these are the sons of God. We have quoted that, but we've not done that.
38:26 -  It's a very sensitive business and requires such an affinity with God so as to pick up the valence and disposition of his Spirit. I'm not a man who cries often, but the one time I remember where I was so done in,
38:43 -  I fell under the table at a full gospel breakfast meeting when a speaker who has now gone on to be with the Lord said, in my earlier Christian life, he said, I was careful to be sure to obey the commandments of God.
38:55 -  But as I have gone on, he said, I now wait to fulfill the intimation of his Spirit. I anticipate and sense the disposition of his Spirit. And that's what I fulfill. Because commandments, who cannot fulfill a commandment?
39:13 -  What are you going to do, disobey it? The real issue of sonship is not commandment, but the intimation of the will of God, the disposition of his heart to sense it and feel it, to intuit it and to obey it.
39:27 -  And I can tell you that the heaviest times of responsibility for me in the last 30 years have been exactly on that basis. It's easy to obey God when he said in a big arena at the University of Chicago some years ago, preach the cross. But I don't always get that.
39:47 -  In fact, as I go on, there is less explicit command and more intimation of his will, intuited by the proximity that we have with his own heart. And on that gossamer basis, we're called to obedience when everything else seems to be contrary
40:07 -  to what you are intuiting is the need and what ought to be spoken and performed. This is like walking a tightwire. And one misstep is not only you going down, but bringing everything down with you. That's why Paul cries out,
40:24 -  who is sufficient for these things? I don't know of anyone in Christendom, in contemporary Christianity, who has done more disservice to the spirit of God than those who ostensibly celebrated, mainly Charismatics and Pentecostals.
40:41 -  They are the coarsest, most obdurate, insensitive, loud practitioners celebrating the spirit of God while they are missing it or missing him. Because there's a sensitivity of disposition and affinity, a union with God
40:58 -  to catch the inflection of his heart. He's a still, small voice. And perhaps we will have graduated into sentia when he's no longer required even to exercise his voice, but that there are people who don't need to wait for his commandments that he speaks,
41:15 -  but pick up his very disposition and intuition. Okay, how should we pray for Israel? And not find ourselves in opposition to God's very plan for it, only in the realm of spirit.
41:32 -  And here's the catch. We're not talking about individual virtual also prayer, but we're talking about the most powerful form of prayer, which is corporate. How do we find the mind of the Lord corporately and pray that?
41:47 -  And that brings us into a whole issue of the Church, its composition, relationship, of what the Church itself is. Can you see just by this conversation? We would never even be in this discussion, except for the crisis or the issue that Israel raises.
42:04 -  Not in her success, but in her failure. It's Israel's failure. It's Israel's apostasy. It's Israel's backsliddenness that presents for the Church the crises and issues that compel us to be the Church, as nothing else would have.
42:21 -  All the depth of the riches, Paul cries out in Romans 11, of the wisdom and the knowledge of God. Who has been his counselor? What is Paul celebrating? What has he seen that he can't even contain himself? Pros can't express the depth of this doxology that he ends his great dissertation,
42:39 -  chapters 9 to 11, on the subject of Israel. It's more than Israel's redemption that he's seen. He's seen the genius of God, of the reciprocity. Am I getting too fancy here? You know what reciprocal means? The relationship between one thing and another,
42:56 -  by which neither the one nor the other can come to its fulfillment, independent of the other. Something like marriage. We're married to Israel. We wouldn't have chosen her. What a stubborn, stiff-necked people who will kill us, oppose us, as they did historically.
43:17 -  The worst persecutors of the apostolic Church, after having stoned the prophets and slain its own Messiah, then went ahead and persecuted Paul and the apostolic Church, and will again at the end, because by every reckoning, the threat to them seems to be coming from Christians and the Church.
43:37 -  They're the ones who were instrumental in removing prayer from the public schools. They're the ones who are instrumental in removing prayer from the public schools. They're the ones who are instrumental in removing the Christmas crèche.
43:54 -  Is that how you say it? In communities that would put up their little Christmas exhibit? Jews are instinctively opposed to any celebration of Christianity, because the one thing that they dread is that it would become a state religion.
44:08 -  Where then would they be in such a fix? Where then would they be in such a fix? So they want to make sure that America remains relativistic and open to many faiths,
44:21 -  including Judaism, so that they would not be exempted and stand out as the one people who are not going along with the fundamentalists as a Christian right. They form at the mouth of this.
44:34 -  It's ironic to say, but that the American Civil Liberties Union is essentially a Jewish organization. And who is it who defended the right of Nazis to parade through the streets of Skokie, Illinois, and have their Nazi demonstration?
44:53 -  The American Civil Liberties Union, protecting the rights of every minority, because they themselves are a minority. And so what are they gaining by removing prayer from the public schools,
45:05 -  and secularizing America, and removing the benevolent influence that somehow used to exist as a residue in our American civilization, the absence of which now has bred a generation of kids that will kill each other in schools
45:18 -  without blinking an eyelash, and will eventually kill them. See what I mean? But in their self-interest, and in the particular defensive mode that they must perform
45:31 -  in their secular mindedness, they're acting against the very things that would have been to their benefit. And that has always been our history. Who is it who encouraged a movement away from orthodox Christianity in Germany
45:46 -  to a more of a nature religion, God revealed in nature rather than in Christ, and that the orthodoxy is stultifying to have a religion predicated on creed, that we need a religion that is more accessible and conducive to feeling.
46:05 -  And so in the Germany of the mid or early 18th century, a young star was rising by the name of Schleiermacher, who became the father of German theology. If Jim were here, he would be amen-ing me all the way.
46:24 -  Who was the chaplain of the Prussian army and became the most formidable influence in German Christianity to move it from a biblical, apostolic, and orthodox understanding into the kind of liberal thing that finally eventuated in the God is Dead movement.
46:42 -  Who suffered for that? What came into the vacuum of German culture and civilization when the vitality of an orthodox and apostolic Christianity was lost?
46:55 -  Nazism, demonism that destroyed those who were instrumental in effecting the loss of orthodox or authentic Christianity in Germany, namely the Jew, because the ones who recognized Schleiermacher and his gifts
47:11 -  were Jewish patrons of the arts. Even the descendants of Mendelssohn, his granddaughters, were patronized to help this young theologian to get started
47:22 -  and to become the influence that he became. Jews have cut their noses to spite their faces. We've created the Frankenstein that destroys us.
47:30 -  And that same phenomenon is working now and will to the end. They'll oppose us, thinking that we represent effect to them. We are fundamentalist Christians.
47:41 -  We're seeking their conversion. And we're opposed to them remaining as Jews. That's my mother's great struggle.
47:50 -  Who is more dedicated to this Jewish people willing to suffer even on their behalf than fundamentalist Christians, evangelical Christians? Okay, well, these are not little side issues.
48:03 -  They're central issues and maybe evidently it's pleased the Lord even before we get into this text, touch some of these things that are evidently new to a number of you.
48:14 -  So, God's mistreatment of the Jew, the coming Holocaust of the time of Jacob's trouble, will raise for the shallow Christian the question of where is God?
48:27 -  We've not yet successfully answered the question for the last Holocaust. How will we answer it for the next? By every appearance it will seem if there is a God,
48:37 -  he's not just, he's not righteous, he's not kind, he's not merciful to allow this people again a second time within the same century to pass through such a trial unto death
48:48 -  and he will not alleviate it short of death. It's not just the light reprimand because one of my major differences with the brothers in Israel
48:58 -  who say, yes, there's a time of Jacob's trouble coming. We don't dispute that. There will be trouble but it's not as severe as you say.
49:07 -  They'll survive and the nation will survive because didn't God say that so long as the sun gives its light and the moon and the stars that my covenant with Israel will stand
49:17 -  and that there will always be a nation before me? Yes, that's true. But we have to distinguish between a nation and a state.
49:27 -  God is not under obligation to preserve the state but he's under obligation to preserve the nation. Got the picture?
49:38 -  Here's the point that went among the many points. This will tax our understanding of God severely to understand that God in judgment and severe chastisement is still God
49:52 -  and that in fact his judgments and his chastisements are not contrary to his nature but the deepest revelation of his nature.
50:00 -  That it's not opposite to kindness, it is kindness. Only those of us who can't chastise our own children will be offended by his chastisements.
50:11 -  But those of us who are sons who have received his chastisements will understand exactly what he's doing with the nation and not be offended.
50:19 -  Blessed are all they who are not offended in me. Not that the blessing is the reward of not being offended but it's because you're blessed that you're not offended.
50:29 -  You're blessed because you know God in a way that recognizes that his judgments are his mercy. You're not offended by his judgments.
50:38 -  You love his judgments because when his judgments are in the world the world will learn righteousness. The issue of Israel is the severest test for the Christian in the last days.
50:51 -  It's God's very provision for us. Calculated to save us from a shallowness about the knowledge of God his purpose and his will that nothing else could have obtained.
51:04 -  So that Israel even in her unbelief and especially in her unbelief is God's very provision for the church. Can you see that?
51:15 -  All the death of the riches both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God and who has been his counselor? Paul was seeing it.
51:23 -  That Israel is for the church's sake. Doesn't he say that? They are the enemies of the gospel for your sake.
51:31 -  Who needs enemies like that? These are ultimate enemies. They are supreme enemies.
51:37 -  They're not some amateur Ku Klux Klan that's spitting out some little stupidity. They are learned, erudite, sophisticated, well spoken.
51:45 -  Man, they'll intimidate you and you're going to witness to them? They'll chew you up and stick you out in a better knowledge that you yourself have
51:52 -  and they'll do it with a better grammar than you have with them that which you are capable. Jews are the most, most foreboding opposition to the gospel
52:01 -  in its entire history. And they were calculated for that for our sake. Who needs it? We need it.
52:09 -  Or else we would have been a bunch of manly fanbeats. You know, just going along superficially and taking the drunk out of the street
52:18 -  and telling him he needs to be saved. Who can't do that? But let's see you take a man with a master's degree
52:26 -  and a PhD and who has never once ever bought that his wife. He's much more the exemplary husband than you have ever been as a spiritual man and tell him that he needs your Christ.
52:37 -  And when you'll do that, you will have come to the faith. It's the supreme test. Because everything in appearances is contrary.
52:47 -  This doesn't look like, he doesn't look like he's lost. He's going to need your Christ in whose name his people have been historically persecuted.
52:56 -  He's got it all together. He's accomplished. He's well-spoken. He's humane. He belongs to B'nai B'rith.
53:03 -  He's received the Man of the Year Award. And you're telling him that he's lost because he doesn't have your Christ?
53:09 -  Hey, that's Christo-fascism. That's absolutist mentality. That's dogmatism. What's the matter with his Judaism?
53:16 -  Can you tell him what's wrong with it? See what I mean? The issue of the Jew is the issue of the Church.
53:25 -  It's not one that we would have chosen, but God in His wisdom has chosen it. We are locked in to a reciprocal relationship with His people
53:36 -  without which we would never have come forth into sonship and into prophetic stature by which they themselves will be saved.
53:45 -  Because when they become dry bones, who's going to speak to those bones? The Lord won't.
53:51 -  Uh-uh. Only the Son of Man. That's us.
53:57 -  And if all speaking is just a little pipsqueak, hope against hope that it works and is not a real prophetic faith
54:04 -  and is not carrying the resonance of God and the authority of God, those bones will remain bones.
54:10 -  And Paul will still wait for the fulfillment of what shall the return be but life from the dead. The nations will still be dead,
54:17 -  still be steeped in violence and fornication and incest and insanity and polluted and corrupted beyond all speaking, waiting for that nation.
54:27 -  Because that nation, redeemed and restored out of death, is God's sole and exclusive answer to the nations. So those ministries that think that they're going to save nations
54:40 -  are all wet. They're not calculated to save nations, but a people from the nations for his name,
54:47 -  not the nations themselves. That's Israel's calling. Got the picture?
54:54 -  This is a vast strategy of God. Israel is the key to the nations redeemed, but who's the key to Israel?
55:01 -  Dum-da-dum-dum. Shabby, sentimental Christians who are praying for the peace of Jerusalem,
55:07 -  wanting conflict to pass and thinking that that's peace. The absence of conflict is not what God calls shalom. It's our convenience that we're really seeking,
55:19 -  not the deep resolution of God that we'll glorify Him. And the church that does not have God's glory at the apex and the center of what it is about is not the church.
55:31 -  It's an institution serving its own ends and promoting its own programs. And the Jews will be totally unaffected by them,
55:38 -  and they will be eternally embarrassed with their failure. Who's going to address those bones with prophetic speaking, whose word is itself a resurrection phenomenon
55:50 -  and alone calculated to raise the dead? It has to be spoken with one voice. God's not looking for some virtuoso,
55:58 -  and that if He has that one man, that's it. It's the church in its corporateness. It's the son of man as a company,
56:05 -  speaking with one voice at one time when they are commanded and not when it's convenient. How do we come to that?
56:15 -  Through suffering. How did any prophet ever come to it? We learned about Jeremiah.
56:22 -  My God, that man was tempered in the fire and thrown into the pit. He suffered rejection. He questioned himself as to whether he himself was missing it,
56:34 -  and how come he had to bear those burdens? I mean, that guy was shredded, sifted, dealt with, as were all the prophets,
56:41 -  because they're not plucked out of the air. They come as the son of God Himself to obedience through suffering, a statute in God,
56:51 -  because it's in the fellowship of His suffering that He's revealed. The church that will save Israel is this kind of church, but it's not something that will be imposed upon it as a requirement,
57:06 -  will not be drafted where we have no alternative. God waits for the voluntary submission, as many as will. And when I finish messages like this, I give an invitation.
57:17 -  How many will say to the Lord, Lord, whatever it takes for me to come in and be part of that last day's company of the sons of God who can speak the word of life to a dead Israel,
57:29 -  I'm willing, from this time on, Lord, go ahead. Whatever it takes, I know it's going to take much. I'm soft, I'm sentimental, I'm self-serving, I'm weak, I'm vain, I'm proud,
57:40 -  I'm egotistical, I'm cowardly, but whatever it takes to deal with all those things, that when you shall command it, I'll be in that company to speak the word that is the word.
57:50 -  And it's going to take. God waits to be voluntarily invited to perform that sanctifying work. Okay.
58:00 -  It was beyond Ezekiel himself, beyond his prophetic faith and ability. It was an ultimate requirement that in Ezekiel's meeting of it by the grace of God, he himself transcended himself and was brought into the ultimacy of God's intention
58:15 -  for himself as a son of man. Can you see that? The words of a dead Israel compel the prophet to a ground that he would not otherwise have found
58:24 -  nor even have sought. And that's why chapter 37 has as much to do with the son of man as with Israel, because they represent God's two cardinal concerns,
58:34 -  Israel as a nation and the son of man as the Church. And neither one comes into its fulfillment independent of the other. We would be satisfied with the measure of growth or progress we've obtained,
58:49 -  but it's not God's measure. Israel will require the ultimate measure because Israel will constitute the ultimate crisis. So the famine took place throughout that country.
59:04 -  Others suffered. Isn't that interesting? Just like the famine that came through Elijah. It shall not reign nor do, but according to my word.
59:14 -  Hotshot making a pronouncement, speaking for God as God. And God honored it. For three years there was no reign nor do.
59:21 -  Animals were bellowing because their grass was dried up, and they had no stream from which to drink. The whole of Israel's economy was pulverized and devastated
59:30 -  because a single man pronounced the judgment. It shall not reign nor do, but according to my word. And he himself was not exempt from the very conditions brought by his word.
59:40 -  He had to be fed by a raven. He himself would have perished. And the very stream by which he abided dried up. So the prophetic man is not exempt from the conditions.
59:51 -  He suffers then with others. But that God is allowing and will allow widespread suffering in the fulfillment of his redemptive purposes
01:00:00 -  is something that will boggle our minds and give the impression that he's unjust. One of the great cries from the Jewish community that argues against the Holocaust as being the judgment of God
01:00:11 -  is that it couldn't be art because of the six million victims, a million and a half were children. Are you trying to say that God would take the lives of innocent children
01:00:21 -  in that cruel death that the concentration camp was? We may understand it for adults, but children? That couldn't be God because it's a contradiction.
01:00:31 -  God is just. God is loving. God is merciful. How would he allow the innocent to suffer together with the guilty? Can you answer that question?
01:00:40 -  Have you thought about that question? Have you broken your brains over that question? The book is there on the rack of that question and an answer.
01:00:50 -  Because I've broken my brains over it. And it's remarkable to say that it's in that paradox and that contradiction that not only do you find an explanation for God,
01:01:02 -  but the deepest revelation of God. That where it seems to contradict God is the ground in which the revelation will come
01:01:11 -  if you press through to the deepest understanding of God. It's where he seems to be the most offensive that he reveals himself in his greatest mercy.
01:01:23 -  It's full of contradiction. But why are we fixed at so shallow a level that we don't know him as we ought?
01:01:29 -  We have cliched notions about God, which are more the projection of our own imagining than the truth of him, because we've not wrestled through,
01:01:36 -  because we've not agonized with these paradoxical questions out of our own history. We've swept it under the carpet and have gone on.
01:01:44 -  The thing intended for our understanding and our growth has been dismissed and swept away because we were unwilling to look into the burning bush.
01:01:53 -  We passed it by. It gave us a chill. It was a strange phenomenon there. It burned and was not consumed.
01:01:59 -  Hey, I better not even look into this. If I look into this, I'm fearful about what the effect or consequence for me will be.
01:02:06 -  But when God saw a man who did not turn away, but looked in, not only just out of curiosity, but to ask the question why it burned without being consumed,
01:02:17 -  then God said, Moses, Moses, the ground on which you stand is holy. This is the ground of your call and your consecration
01:02:26 -  to be Israel's very deliverer, because you've not turned away from the fire. You've looked into the midst of that bush
01:02:33 -  and the issue of judgment, and that's where I am in a depth of revelation of myself that is not to be given in any other place or in any other way.
01:02:42 -  We have shallow notions of God because we have not looked into the burning bush, because we have not had a stomach to consider God's judgments,
01:02:50 -  because we thought that a famine was an accident or an earthquake was a natural commotion. We've not understood the complete sovereignty of God
01:03:00 -  that is most tested, especially when it brings suffering. Inga's great dilemma about God is,
01:03:07 -  how could God allow his son to die on the cross? It boggles her mind. It's too cruel.
01:03:13 -  How could God allow such cruelty on his own flesh? Because this is a woman that when her children had to be inoculated for the various things that they do when they go to school,
01:03:24 -  turned purple in her face, that a needle was going to touch the flesh of her children and pain them, even momentarily.
01:03:35 -  She's so averse to the suffering of the flesh. Isn't that the idea? And yet suffering is the deepest revelation of God.
01:03:47 -  And when Jesus suffered on the cross, talk about suffering, was the greatest revelation of God in his righteousness and in his mercy,
01:03:55 -  in his condemnation of sin, in his statement about the human condition and his answer to it.
01:04:01 -  It's all in the burning bush that the cross itself is, but we've turned away and sentimentalized it. And Germany's undoing came through the influence of men
01:04:12 -  like the poet Goethe, G-O-E-T-H-E, who was a great humanist, poet philosopher, but not a great Christian.
01:04:22 -  And for him, the cross was an offense. It was too crude. And he said, what we need to do is garland the cross with roses,
01:04:32 -  soften it, and in fact he did it, and the whole nation paid the price. That's why I love these scholars.
01:04:42 -  It was not just an intellectual operation. Their guts were involved. I'm looking now at the three volumes.
01:04:50 -  That is the greatest statement on the theocratic kingdom ever written by a man who suffered rejection from his own Lutheran church because he was occupied with eschatological questions
01:05:03 -  of the last days which chilled them. George Peters, whose eyesight was so bad because of the childhood accident
01:05:13 -  that it would utter most pain to read and to write, and the man would spend 18 to 20 hours a day in study and then spend the entire night in writing
01:05:24 -  to produce three volumes called The Theocratic Kingdom. That is the absolute classic on the great question of Israel, its covenant, and kingdom.
01:05:37 -  But it was a suffering to write it and he had to suffer the rejection of men in his identification with these issues.
01:05:48 -  I'll read you a little bit of his biography if you're interested. Suffering on the cross is the name of the game. So our false notions of God, our hope for desires for Israel
01:06:02 -  are all a statement of our distance from that cross and our shrinking from it. Wanting an easy fix, a quick fix,
01:06:10 -  rather than God's ultimate and enduring redemption. So here's a father who allowed his son to go out into the world and to misspend his entire heritage.
01:06:25 -  What a picture of Israel, the Jews historically. And this is the father that when the son comes back through the famine and he says,
01:06:35 -  I am better off being a servant in my father's house. I don't deserve to be a son. At least I'll have bread. I'll not have to eat when I'm feeding the pigs.
01:06:44 -  But the father saw him coming and ran to greet him and embrace him. Well, if he had that kind of love for the son
01:06:52 -  that saw him from afar off and went running to greet him, why didn't he express that love earlier? Why didn't he save the son out of his distress?
01:07:01 -  Why didn't he send him a care package? What kind of a father is that? To allow his own son to come to the brink of starvation
01:07:09 -  that he might come to himself? I'll tell you what kind of father that is. That's a true father.
01:07:16 -  That's the everlasting father. That's the father that God himself is and the father that none of us ever had
01:07:22 -  or we would be different men. We have fathers who took it easy on us because they did not love us enough
01:07:31 -  to discipline and to chastise us. It's not that they wanted to spare us pain. They wanted to spare themselves pain.
01:07:40 -  This father is willing for the pain of being a father who knows that his son is dying by inches and is with the swine but will not interrupt
01:07:49 -  but allow it to have its full redemptive working for the son must come back to the father voluntarily and of himself
01:07:57 -  and recognise I have not only sinned against you but I have sinned against God. And nothing short nor less than this famine
01:08:07 -  and degradation of being reduced with the pigs would have accomplished it. There was no cheaply and quick fix.
01:08:19 -  This is a great parable but we've not come to the heart of it which is not so much the response of the father
01:08:28 -  but the response of the elder brother. That's us. A profligate son who has misspent his inheritance
01:08:36 -  is Israel and the Jew. What an inheritance they had. My God from the beginning but it's been misspent.
01:08:43 -  And we're the older son who has been obedient and we've worked hard and we've been faithful and he never made a feast for us.
01:08:51 -  How come you made a feast for this bum who has misspent everything. So he heard the sound of singing in celebration
01:09:00 -  and he asked the servant what's going on here and the servant said your father has killed the fattened calf in verse 27
01:09:08 -  because he has got him back safe and sound. Then he became angry. Interesting what will reveal the truth of one's condition.
01:09:21 -  This was always true of him but it took the return of the son and the father's gracious response to the son
01:09:29 -  to reveal in the brother what would not otherwise have been seen. I want to tell you of the opposition that I face
01:09:37 -  as I travel the world and bring the message of the mystery of Israel that the greatest opposition comes from Anglo-Saxons.
01:09:44 -  More in England or Australia, New Zealand not so much but England than any other place
01:09:52 -  is a resentment. There's something deep in these Anglo-Saxons that resents that God has an intention for his son
01:10:01 -  that maybe will exclude them or take some measure of their reward or their glory because they want it all for themselves
01:10:08 -  because after all they are now the Israel of God and they are in the what do you call it movement the restoration movement.
01:10:16 -  They are the apostolic glory and prophetic but their treatment of me is so shabby that it belies any truth about their claim
01:10:26 -  to be either apostolic or prophetic. I don't need to tell you. I mean it's rude the way I have been treated
01:10:34 -  that you wouldn't even expect such treatment from the world let alone a movement that calls itself apostolic because I bear a message they cannot bear to hear.
01:10:45 -  It triggers an inmost resentment in them about the Jew. There's something in them. I don't know what it is about the British
01:10:52 -  because even the word Britain some say has come from the Hebrew word Brit which means covenant
01:10:58 -  and that they see themselves as the dispersed of Israel that are the true Israel of God. This is British Israelite-ism
01:11:06 -  and that these Jews today are not the real thing. They're kazaar Jews. They're you know cheaply written edition.
01:11:13 -  They are the ones who really have the destiny in God and they resent this one coming back now who says no I'm the original son
01:11:22 -  and the father has for me a ring and a cloak and a garment of the highest kind and honor and reward though I'm totally undeserving
01:11:31 -  and there's nothing that's going to reveal the baseness of our hearts and when God gives to the undeserving
01:11:37 -  the largesse and generosity and love and tribute that we think they do not qualify for and are entirely undeserving
01:11:47 -  and the thing that involuntarily rises up from us when we hear this is but they don't deserve it.
01:11:53 -  Well that's true. But what did you deserve? What do you think that your salvation
01:11:59 -  was something given you because you deserved it? Evidently there's something wrong in your understanding of the faith.
01:12:05 -  You have really never ever come to the foundational ground of what this faith is and what this salvation is
01:12:12 -  or your attitude about your brother would be far different than what you are exhibiting in your anger.
01:12:20 -  You're angry. You have no generosity of soul. You have no magnanimity.
01:12:27 -  You're not grateful that your brother has come back who was lost and was dead and is now alive. You'd rather see him dead
01:12:34 -  and if you had to speak to those bones you would shut up even if God commanded you you would not prophesy to them
01:12:40 -  because you don't want to see Israel raised again to a place of prominence. You want to be the one that's prominent.
01:12:47 -  That God's purposes should fail because of the base motivation of the Church that seeks only its own glory
01:12:55 -  and its own exaltation and has no place in its heart for its brother. That's the meaning of this parable.
01:13:08 -  And the father has to plead with the son who refused to go in. His father came out and began to plead with him
01:13:16 -  but he answered his father very gruffly, Listen, for all these years I've been working like a slave for you
01:13:23 -  and I never disobeyed your command yet you have never given me even a young goat so that I might celebrate with my friends
01:13:30 -  but when this son of yours you know the way he describes him this brother, no, this son of yours
01:13:37 -  he's unwilling to even identify with that one as being his brother and Jesus says
01:13:45 -  what you do for the least of these my brethren is the issue of your eternal fate.
01:13:53 -  Jesus is not ashamed to call a backslidden and apostate nation in judgment
01:14:00 -  being cast out in the nations again his brethren but when did we see you
01:14:05 -  naked, thirsty, hungry, in prison as you have not done this for the least of these my brethren
01:14:11 -  you have not done it unto me because I am thoroughly and totally identified with this scandalous people
01:14:18 -  in all of their filthy condition in all of their judgment they are still my brethren
01:14:25 -  my love is not predicated on the condition of anyone because I am not responding to what they are I'm expressing what I am
01:14:34 -  this is what I am in myself and because you have not been met in yourself you not only failed to recognize them
01:14:41 -  but you couldn't bring yourself to extend mercy to them because your salvation was never really a salvation it was a shallow religious kind of thing
01:14:50 -  where you spoke the right words and subscribed to the right credo but you did not have the right reality because your very statement
01:14:57 -  they don't deserve it shows that you have never surrendered to the grace of God you've quoted it as a credo
01:15:04 -  it's in your doctrine but it's not in your heart and when you boast what he boasts
01:15:10 -  I have always worked for you like a slave what a statement is that I never fear like I'm a slave
01:15:17 -  and I'm working for the Lord like I'm a forced laborer it's a privilege my God
01:15:22 -  so his whole attitude even about working for the Father shows how far out of the faith he was
01:15:29 -  that's strange to say there's more hope for this prodigal son who had wasted all his substance
01:15:36 -  than this so called faithful and loyal son who always obeyed his commandments yeah but not out of love
01:15:44 -  that the Father has to say but Sonny said all that I have has always been yours
01:15:51 -  I didn't think if you were a goat everything that I have is yours how come you didn't know that
01:15:56 -  if you knew that you could afford to be generous to your brother who's now coming back
01:16:01 -  the fact that you're stingy and penny pinching and tight fisted that you won't even come in and celebrate
01:16:07 -  shows how little you know how gracious I have been to you for all that I have is yours
01:16:17 -  that's why Jesus could take off his robe and take on the form of a servant and get a bowl of water and a towel
01:16:24 -  and wash the stinking feet of his disciples and they were shocked Peter says you better not do that to me
01:16:30 -  oh yeah if I don't do that to you you have no part with me how was he able
01:16:36 -  the Lord of glory to take off the robe of his distinction and gird himself with a towel like a common servant
01:16:43 -  and wash their filthy feet and call that a benediction because he knew that he had come from the Father
01:16:49 -  and that he was going to the Father and that the Father had given him all things that knowledge will permit your humility
01:16:58 -  it's the key to it it will permit your graciousness it will be an end to your tight fisted
01:17:04 -  measuring it out by teaspoons you'll be able to be large because God has given you all things
01:17:11 -  and you know it it took this profligate son to reveal the truth
01:17:21 -  of the condition of the older brother that would never have been revealed in any other way so God was allowing the famine
01:17:30 -  not only for the one son but equally for the other because he's concerned for both
01:17:36 -  the original son and the old son he's concerned for Israel's concern for the church and it's only Israel's plight
01:17:43 -  that has misused its substance and its inheritance that will reveal our heart
01:17:49 -  but they don't deserve it that the Father should run to them and put a ring on their finger
01:17:55 -  and the best garment and kill the fatted calf and have a celebration never did that for me
01:18:04 -  it's amazing what the heart of the church is that never would have been seen gone into eternity in that condition
01:18:13 -  had not the revelation come in this life through God's allowing the other to come into a famine oh the depth of the riches
01:18:23 -  both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God what in God is this? how far will we go?
01:18:30 -  and how far is he required to go when it's not only the issues of this life that are at stake in the question
01:18:36 -  but the issues of eternity itself for in whatever condition we end this natural life it's in that condition
01:18:44 -  that our eternal destiny will be fulfilled some will rule over five cities and some over ten some will not even inherit the kingdom at all
01:18:58 -  so Lord clobber us and enable us vicariously
01:19:07 -  to see ourselves in this text what an eye opener Lord and we have to ask
01:19:15 -  with which brother do I really have the deepest identification? because there's more hope for the one than the other and Lord if I have that older brother's
01:19:29 -  heartness and resentment and anger who won't even come in to celebrate I'm asking you to deal with my heart
01:19:37 -  and open my understanding that you have always given me all things I don't have to be stingy
01:19:44 -  there's room not only for the glory that shall be mine as the church but there's room also for the glory that shall be Israel in her return
01:19:52 -  you're not going to run out there's enough for everybody and in that I can be gracious to the returning people
01:19:59 -  and in that grace be an instrument for them of your own salvation so Lord instruct us deeply deal with us deeply
01:20:07 -  that's why we've come here that this is a special kind of a school this is not just an academic thing
01:20:12 -  this is a dealing and we've asked for it and you're doing it
01:20:16 -  so go deep into our hearts my God and unmask it show us the depth of our hearts
01:20:22 -  and what is the truth of our condition because only you can remedy that thank you for being such a good brother