Israel and God's Judgments

00:00 -  The young brother wrote a paper called Israel and the Church as the Manifold Wisdom of God. He speaks of Israel as a kind of issue that appropriates and brings together every issue. I've noticed this, and maybe he got this from me.
00:20 -  There's something about the issue of Israel, I'm not talking about the present state per se. The subject Israel, prophetically and apostolically considered, particularly in its long history of apostasy, the judgments of God, the exiles, the expulsions, the radical dealings, the return and expulsions again,
00:44 -  and the things spoken in the prophets, in Deuteronomy, in Leviticus, that are not yet fulfilled, that if it is appropriated will inevitably touch every aspect of the faith as no other single subject will. It's amazing what the Church is. The Church is called its destiny, its relationship to Israel, the Holy Spirit,
01:10 -  the scriptures themselves, how are they to be read and understood? Are those illusions metaphorical, spiritual, or literal? Does God actually mean he's going to do this, this, and this? Is Israel going to be celebrated over all nations? Or is Zion a kind of a catchword for the Church, or spiritual things in general?
01:32 -  The remarkable issues that come to the surface when the subject of Israel is pressed and examined beyond sentiment. Sentiment is deadly, however much you might enjoy it. I can't think of a single emotion or disposition that more inhibits the truth of God than sentimentality.
02:01 -  It is a worse and more adverse aspect than opposition to God himself. What is intending, well intending, and well meaning can be more in the last analysis in opposition to God than those who seem to be opposed. So I'm an enemy of sentiment because it obstructs and contends against truth.
02:33 -  You know what I love about scholars like the one that I'm going to quote, Kyle and Bailitch? Have you ever heard of them? Not bad. More of you should know the great commentators and scholars of scripture, particularly of the Old Testament and of the Psalms, who are German more than any other nationality.
03:00 -  Isn't that ironic that the same nation so involved in the demise of European Jewry has produced the greatest number and the deepest scholars in Old Testament scripture? They are Hebraicists. I can't tell you how strange it is for me to read them and see their treatment of Hebrew. I'm a Jew and I don't know enough to find my way to the men's room.
03:31 -  And these guys are talking about nuances of Hebrew and cases and definitive and articles and the grammatical construction that would mean this rather than this, It contends with the statement made by Oskar Kuhlmann or this German scholar or that one. And it's a remarkable thing that perhaps Germans are best equipped to express.
03:55 -  It's a labor and it's a labor of love. And their footnotes, just to read them, is exhausting. What does it take to compile them? But what is scholarship without footnotes, where you buttress your statement by alluding to this detail, this fact, this document?
04:13 -  Dear Saints, I never thought I'd be speaking in sight of a cornfield to tell you and call you to the great heritage and treasure, which is ours, that has been the labor of scholars in ages past and is collecting dust and is unknown and of little value to the Church. So I took the statements of Kyle and Delich. Delich, by the way, is himself a Hebrew Christian.
04:45 -  On the commentary of Isaiah, they have done the entire Old Testament. You can get their complete set for probably 60 or 70 dollars and you'll never spend money better. Is there any better use of money than a book? It just keeps on being valuable.
05:09 -  You can mark it. You can go back to it. But if you eat the meal, it's gone and it goes out with the draft. And where did it go? But the book goes on. I start my paper with a comment made by a German theologian during the Hitler time, the height of the Nazi terror.
05:31 -  He was part of the Confessing German Church. Now do you know what that means? It was the Confessing Church in the Hitler time and there was the National German Church. The National German Church had the portrait of Hitler up on the platform.
05:46 -  The Confessing Church was confessing the faith once and for all given to saints, which at that time was radical and would make a man a candidate for concentration camp. I believe we are going to face that challenge again in a soon coming time.
06:04 -  And you won't have to be in Germany to experience it. Believers worldwide will be challenged as to what kind of faith they will uphold. It will never be more dangerous than to uphold the faith of the fathers
06:20 -  and much more convenient to adopt a faith that is sanctioned by society and conventional and predictable and won't get you in trouble. The true faith will always bring you into an identification with God's people Israel. And this German theologian said at that time that the God question, the future question, the Jewish question are the same question.
06:48 -  And this young brother here says something quite like that, never having seen that, if I could find it. It's not so much that the issue of Israel and the Church is a different issue than the cross, salvation, repentance, sin, etc. It is the culmination of these issues into a concluding purpose.
07:10 -  This one issue will reveal whether all these others have become a part of us and whether the life of the living God has been formed in us individually and corporately. There's something about the issue of Israel that reveals the cross, that reveals the issue of sin, of judgment and of God himself. Because if we exclude judgment from God, we dismiss God as God.
07:37 -  We have another deity. We can label him Jesus or however you want to label him, but he's not the God of Jacob. He's not the God of Israel. He's not the God of our fathers. He's not the father of Jesus and the Lord himself. Judgment is intrinsic to God. It's central to his whole being or else he would not be righteous.
08:02 -  His righteousness requires judgment. And when his judgments are in the earth, the world will learn righteousness. It will also learn the fear of God, which being the belief of 35 years and having traveled in many parts of the world in churches of every form and shape and description, I would say is virtually unknown by the modern church today. The fear of God is unknown.
08:32 -  The phrase itself is strange and antique and unfamiliar, let alone the reality. To remove the fear of God from the church is to disqualify the church as church. It can continue its meetings, its programs, its functions. It could mediate benefit for many, but it is not church in the apostolic sense of the word.
08:57 -  And therefore, neither can it be employed by God in his last days endeavor in the salvation of a remnant of Israel that will pass through the final chastisement and judgment. I won't ask you if you can follow me. I think this is being taped. I'm predicting everywhere a devastation of a global kind for Jews everywhere in the world because the scriptures speak of it prolifically called the time of Jacob's trouble.
09:33 -  Such trouble, such suras, that's the Yiddish word. It wouldn't be bad if you learned a few. We have always had suras where Jesus said, this suras will eclipse all previous Jewish calamity since the world began and to its end. And if this time were not cut short, no flesh would survive. But for the elect's sake, the time will be cut short.
10:02 -  I believe he's speaking of a yet future event because he ties it in in Luke 21 and Matthew 24 with a reference to the abomination of desolation. He was asked by his disciples, what is the end of the age? How do we know the end of the age and of your coming? So he's speaking of things that conclude history and bring in the advent of his own coming and his kingdom.
10:28 -  And he says, you will be persecuted for my name in all nations and there will come a time of tribulation spoken of by the prophet Daniel that when you see the abomination of desolation, whatever that might be, and the scholars and commentators have definite thoughts of what that will be, those who can flee to the mountains of Judah pray that your flight does not take place on the Shabbat, the Sabbath, or that you be not pregnant or come not in the winter,
11:02 -  making it very clear that this remarkable explosion that sets in motion the time of Jacob's trouble, which will take the lives of the majority of Jews presently in the world today and leave only a surviving remnant, must have its inception in the land for he's inviting some to flee to the mountains of Judah.
11:27 -  It will have its inception in the city of Jerusalem itself, but it will not be contained nor confined to Israel. The repercussions in what will be set in motion will touch Jacob wherever he is in the world. Shanghai, Timbuktu, Milwaukee, Chicago, it doesn't matter, wherever a Jew is,
11:55 -  the vitriolic, demonic hatred bent on the annihilation of the Jew will pursue him relentlessly unto death. I'm telling the church to expect this, to make provision for it, and to be willing to extend mercy that they may obtain mercy even at the risk of your own life.
12:21 -  That means that there'll have to be a church in the earth in the last days that has not been raptured, and in fact doesn't even have a rapture consciousness and counts its presence in the earth during this time of tribulation as its final glory and hour of honor and privilege.
12:43 -  This is when those who do not hold their lives as dear unto themselves will come forth in the radiance of God. And when Jews see them in that radiance and self-sacrificing spirit for their sake, when they are most despised of all men, I'm quoting from Isaiah 53,
13:06 -  not to describe the crucifixion of Jesus, but to describe the crucifixion of Israel, they will be marred more than any man. They will have no beauty that we should desire them. They will be adrift, cast out, the dispersed of Judah, and the outcasts of Israel.
13:33 -  But it will be your finest hour. And how can you face that and count it privilege except that you have an apostolic apprehension of eternity and eternal reward, where you count it privilege to wear the martyr's crown,
13:53 -  and that you understand that suffering is not something to be shunned or sought, but to be born when it comes, and that it is something that precedes a glory. So you see already what the issue of Israel does?
14:08 -  It brings you necessarily into a consideration of eternity and eternal reward, which is as absent from the mind and the consideration of today's church, even at its charismatic best, as is the absence of the fear of God.
14:27 -  What I love about this Delich is a Hebrew Christian writing about 1860, 1870, and speaking of the existence of a state in the land that must necessarily take place, or else the events that conclude the age of Israel cannot have their inception.
14:48 -  Isn't that remarkable? Long before 1948, he knows, according to scripture, there must be a Jewish presence in the land. And he's writing at a time when the land, Palestine, had become nothing but
15:02 -  malarial swamps, sand dunes, a few straggly elderly Jews that somehow survived or migrated, and is essentially an Ottoman Empire, Turkish, Islamic, and he's talking about the presence of Jews that must necessarily come.
15:18 -  And then he talks about the judgment that must necessarily come, and he doesn't wince. He doesn't recoil. He doesn't draw back. He lets the scriptures state their truth, however much it impinges on his own heart as a Jew.
15:36 -  This is the heart of true scholarship, where you let the truth speak for itself in all of its ramifications without in any way bending or molding it. You let it stand, however painful that truth is, because it's God's truth.
15:58 -  So he does credit to himself as a scholar, a servant of the Church and of Christ by not withholding any implication of his painstaking exegesis of the Word of God, however painful and fearful its implications.
16:11 -  He brings to our attention from the very beginning of the book of Isaiah to the Deuteronomic framework of understanding from which the prophets spoke as being the common key to all prophecy.
16:22 -  I'm quoting Daylitz himself. Daylitz sees in the prophet Isaiah and in all the prophets what was the framework of their whole prophetic vista, namely the book of Deuteronomy.
16:34 -  And the book of Deuteronomy has more to say about the last day's judgment of God for Israel than any other single Old Testament book. I would commend to you especially chapter 32 called the Song of Moses,
16:48 -  which has nothing to do with chariots being tossed into the sea, but has everything to do with that which would befall us in the latter days if we turn from God and from covenant keeping and from his ordinance and statutes
17:06 -  and became apostate. It's called the Song because it was to be communicated from father to son like a poetry, like an ode.
17:16 -  Maybe it even had a melody that they would chant and learn it and memorize it. Well, I can tell you I never heard this as a Jewish young boy. I never grew up with a father who knew it, and I don't know of any other modern Jew either.
17:33 -  And that's why when the Holocaust came in the Hitler time, there were few, if any, Jews that had any preparation or anticipation of what would befall them who would have been instructed
17:48 -  and maybe had been brought to a place of repentance had they known this Deuteronomic Song. So let's take a look at Isaiah starting from the beginning. I remember when I had to do with Moish Rosen of Jews for Jesus,
18:10 -  and he was fielding the criticism that the New Testament is anti-Semitic. Many Jews believe that, that the root of anti-Semitism are the allusions to Jews that are very biting.
18:24 -  He said, if you think that the New Testament is bad, have you read the book of Isaiah lately? Because the book of Isaiah begins with this vision that the prophet saw,
18:37 -  and he cries out in verse 2, Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken. I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me.
18:48 -  The ox knows its owner, and the donkey its master's crib. But Israel does not know, my people do not consider. I took the liberty of inserting the word in a red pen.
19:01 -  My people do not even consider. Not only are the rebellious apostate, not only do they fail to exhibit the most rudimentary loyalty
19:13 -  that an animal, a domestic animal, would give its owner, but they do not even consider their apostasy. So the book of Isaiah begins with a scathing indictment of the nation Israel.
19:31 -  O last sinful nation, verse 4, a people laden with iniquity, a brood of evildoers, children who are corrupters.
19:41 -  Notice not just corrupted, but corrupters means corrupting others. They have forsaken the Lord, they have provoked the anger of the Holy One of Israel,
19:51 -  they have turned away backward. Why should you be stricken again? The Lord is asking through the prophet.
19:57 -  You will revolt more and more. The whole head is sick, the whole heart faints, from the sole of the foot even to the head.
20:03 -  There's no soundness in it, but wounds and bruises and putrefying sores that have not been closed or bound up or soothed with ointment.
20:11 -  Your country is desolate, your cities are burned with fire, strangers devour your land and your presence, and it is desolate as overthrown by strangers.
20:22 -  So the daughter of Zion, a kind of synonym for the city of Jerusalem, is left as a hut, a shack in a vineyard,
20:31 -  a hut in a garden of cucumbers as a besieged city. Unless the Lord of Hosts had left to us a very small remnant, we would have become like Sodom,
20:42 -  we would have been made like Gomorrah. I don't know what the actual conditions were when this prophecy was first written.
20:51 -  It may well be that none of the conditions described here at that time then existed. The prophet was seeing by the prophetic eye
21:00 -  what is the future condition to which that city is tending while they are in the midst of everything that would assure them that they are in the right place with God.
21:10 -  Something like the church. They have their worship services, they have their feast days, they have their sacrifices.
21:17 -  In fact, later on, God says, Why do you trample my courts? Your sacrifices are a stench to me, I abhor them.
21:25 -  So evidently they were being performed. Religion was going on. There was a priesthood.
21:31 -  The functions were taking place. But the prophet sees through it and is expressing God's perception of the reality of Israel
21:40 -  that is soon to be judged and sees it as being judged. The question that we need to ask is, has that condition changed?
21:54 -  Has this people ever acknowledged the prophetic indictment or that God has a controversy with it? Has there ever been a national acknowledgement of repentance
22:06 -  for the sins of our fathers, which if we do not acknowledge their sins, we of necessity adopt them and continue in the same spirit of them?
22:17 -  That's why it says in Leviticus 26, When you will acknowledge the sins of your fathers as well as your own and that the judgments or the chastisements that I have brought have been just,
22:29 -  then I will remember my covenant toward you. God is waiting for something, waiting still. Now how does this sound in the 20th century in 1998
22:40 -  in USA, in the state of Wisconsin on a lovely evening looking out on the cornfield? It's terribly out of place.
22:52 -  One of two things is wrong, Isaiah or us. The prophetic scriptures require a radical adjustment as to reality itself. What is reality?
23:09 -  This was my Sunday message in Racine. The things that we perceive that seem to be impressive or the statement of God that is timeless and ongoing and eternal.
23:24 -  And if you invest yourself in scriptures like this and even in the New Testament and make that to stand for your reality, you doom yourself to being an oddball, strange pilgrim in the earth.
23:40 -  So in verse 12, When you come to appear before me, who has required this from your hand to trample my courts?
23:47 -  God himself has required it, but not in the spirit that they are performing it. Bring no more futile sacrifices.
23:55 -  Incense is an abomination to me. The new moons of the Sabbaths are calling their sermons. I cannot endure iniquity and the sacred meeting.
24:02 -  Your new moons, your point to feast my soul hates. They are a trouble to me. I am weary of bearing them.
24:09 -  Do you remember what prophets were called in the Old Testament times? Even before the Hebrew word nabi? Seers, what were they seeing?
24:20 -  They were seeing what God sees. They were seeing through the appearance of things to the way in which God himself sees the condition of the people.
24:30 -  And that's what they were expressing. Imagine what the charge was to those hearing them. This man is insane.
24:39 -  He deserves to be stoned. He's a painful nuisance at best. Or this is God's own perception
24:48 -  brought through the foolish thing called the prophetic vessel. And we need to acknowledge it as being true of us and turn to our God and repent.
25:01 -  In fact, God makes this generous offer in verse 16 of chapter 1. Wash yourselves. Just above that it says your hands are full of blood.
25:13 -  Make yourselves clean. Put away the evil of your doings from before my eyes. Cease to do evil.
25:19 -  Learn to do good. Seek justice. Rebuke the oppressor.
25:22 -  Defend the father's plea for the widow. You notice that when God's people forsake God, the consequence is always social injustice, mistreatment of the poor,
25:35 -  the helpless, the defenseless, the widow, and the orphan. So get this right. This is not a social activist who's out to change society.
25:46 -  He's a man bringing to the attention of the nation its apostasy and turning away from God, the evidence of which is injustice.
25:56 -  Blood is on your hands. You're ruthless. You're violent.
26:00 -  He might well be describing present-day Israel and the increase of violence in that nation, not only toward the Palestinians who threatened them,
26:11 -  but within their own nation and against themselves. Who would ever have thought that the state of Israel would ever see the assassination of its head of state by another Jew?
26:25 -  And already there's talk of war between the orthodox, the secular, and the many divisions and strifes that are taking place in the land. Gangsterism, corruption, hit squads, mafia is replete in present-day Israel.
26:42 -  And now, as was then, the issue is a separation from God, a Godlessness, the consequence of which is evil in society, and it always takes the form of violence and blood.
27:01 -  But God is saying, wash yourself, make yourself clean, put away the evil of your doings. Verse 18, come now, let us reason together, says the Lord.
27:08 -  Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall be as wool. If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land.
27:19 -  But if you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured by the sword, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. God is making a remarkable proposal that though Israel has come
27:32 -  to a pathetic state, he's willing to extend forgiveness. If they will acknowledge their sins and come and cleanse their hands, and let us reason, the Lord says, could anything be more gracious,
27:45 -  more just, more merciful? I will forgive you, and you shall eat from the fat of the land. But if you will not, here's going to be the consequence.
27:55 -  The sword. If you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured by the sword, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken.
28:03 -  So what would you say was Israel's answer to this invitation? Historically speaking, or even presently speaking, it has been the sword, and we have been devoured,
28:17 -  because we are unwilling to turn from our sin and to receive the gracious offer of God, to reason together, and to receive his forgiveness,
28:29 -  and the most significant expression of God's final offer of mercy came in the coming of the Lord himself as Messiah. His peacemaking, his reconciling gift, his blood,
28:46 -  would have fulfilled this gracious gift, but it was spurned then, as this was spurned earlier, and even as it is spurned now.
28:59 -  And when you spurn the gracious gift of God, when you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured by the sword, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken.
29:09 -  Well, there's so much more that deserves attention in the verses that follow how the faithful city has become a harlot. It was full of justice, righteousness, large-knit, but now murderers.
29:21 -  Your silver has become dross, your wine mixed with water, your princes are rebellious and companions of thieves, everyone loves bribes and follows after rewards, and so on.
29:36 -  That should be scary for the church, that a faithful city has become a harlot. It was full of justice, righteousness, large-knit, but now murderers.
29:48 -  How do you go from the one thing to the other? At what point did that take place? How were you at one time full of righteousness,
29:57 -  and now you have become the opposite? When was that transacted? When was that affected? At what point? It was a process of decline,
30:09 -  in which I'm sure God had sent His prophets, called the people to attention to the erosion, but when it was not heated, it became the opposite of what it was intended to be.
30:21 -  Your silver has become dross, your wine mixed with water. I want to go from Isaiah 1 to Isaiah 6, because with the exception of a section of Isaiah 2
30:35 -  that speaks of Israel's millennial glory, the prophet returns to the sins of Israel, the judgments of God, the coming devastation. And then in chapter 6, Isaiah himself receives his commission and call
30:53 -  when he sees the Lord high and lifted up, the house filled with glory, and cries out, always me, I'm undone, I'm a man of unclean lips,
31:02 -  and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. And so an angel of seraphim brings a call from the altar
31:13 -  to touch the mouth of Isaiah to purge his iniquity. Isn't that interesting? God doesn't say, don't get carried away, Isaiah. You're so dramatic. There's such a flourish in your speaking.
31:24 -  I'm always me, I'm undone, I'm a man of unclean lips. You are the prince of prophets. It's the people who are unclean. You're okay. Nothing like that.
31:34 -  God acknowledges what the prophet says is true of himself. Though he was the oracle of God, he was a man of unclean lips, and he could not be sent of God until a divine purging had taken place.
31:49 -  But just the ramifications of that alone are stunning. And then I heard the voice of the Lord in verse 8, whom shall I send and who will go for us?
32:00 -  And I said, here am I, send me. And here's the commission that the prophet receives, not to bring blessing by his speaking, but to bring judgment.
32:12 -  The Lord said, go and tell this people, keep on hearing but do not understand, keep on seeing but do not perceive.
32:18 -  Make the heart of this people dull and their ears heavy and shut their eyes lest they see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart
32:26 -  and return and be healed. What a remarkable charge for a man being sent of God after such a profound revelation of the Lord high and lifted up.
32:37 -  Your speaking is not going to bring revelation. It's not going to bring illumination or understanding. It's going to bring the very opposite.
32:46 -  Because you speak, their ears are going to grow heavy, their eyes dull, their heart unperceiving, lest they hear or see and be saved.
32:55 -  It's a judgment that comes with the prophetic word. And yet, when we get to chapter 40 of Isaiah and all the way to the final chapter 66,
33:07 -  the book of Isaiah is full of prophecies of Israel's millennial glory at the end of the age. So the prophet that God uses for judgment at the inception,
33:22 -  because he's faithful in speaking the word of judgment, is the God who speaks the word of hope and future restoration at the end of the book.
33:32 -  So when will this judgment end? When will you lift this? And here is the remarkable statement of God
33:40 -  that brings us right into the 20th century with judgments that have not yet been performed, but will be. How do you know, Art?
33:49 -  Because their heart is still heavy, their ears are still dull, and their eyes are yet unperceiving.
33:55 -  This is yet still the state of the Jewish people worldwide, except for a remnant that Paul speaks of in every generation. But the nation, the people as a people,
34:08 -  are still under this judgment. And that's what Paul said, that even when they read the books of Moses,
34:16 -  what does it say? Their sight is veiled. There's still a blinder on them
34:25 -  until their heart shall turn to the Lord. They're still under this. And so that will explain our frustration,
34:32 -  our sense of defeat when we try to witness to a Jew. And it's so difficult. We don't seem to succeed.
34:42 -  Like my mother, now I'm in the faith 35 years, she's still not a believer? What has she not heard? What has she not seen?
34:49 -  What had not been conveyed to her? What ministers have not spoken to her? How many times has she visited Ben Israel,
34:56 -  seen God's people and all of the evidences that would have opened anyone to the knowledge of the Lord? She's still in that state.
35:05 -  How long, Lord? And the answer is, until. The cities are laid waste and without inhabitant.
35:14 -  The houses are without a man. The land is utterly desolate. The Lord has removed men far away.
35:23 -  And the forsaken places are many in the midst of the land. Who's doing this? Who's making Israel a wasteland?
35:32 -  Who's devouring with the sword? Remember what we read? But if you will rebel and turn away,
35:39 -  you will be devoured with the sword. And here, five chapters later, is the same thing spelled out in other terms.
35:48 -  The cities are laid waste without inhabitant. The houses without a man. The land is utterly desolate.
35:55 -  The Lord has removed men far away. He may use nations to perform this, but it's his work.
36:07 -  What's the word for the work of judgment? His strange work, but yet his work. But yet a tint will be in it
36:15 -  and will return and be for consuming as a turbent tree or an oak whose stump remains when it is cut down
36:22 -  so the Holy Street shall be its stump. There will be a remnant, a tenth, of all of the nation that somehow
36:30 -  will survive and remain. And it's spoken again in Zechariah, when two-thirds of Israel at the time of the Lord's coming
36:38 -  will have perished, the women ravaged, and one-third will survive but will itself pass through the fire.
36:47 -  And Dalit sees this as a statement of Israel's entire history to the end of time. Israel at the end will be restored,
37:01 -  this remnant after being sifted but not destroyed, and all nations will praise Jehovah, who reveals himself both in judgment and in mercy.
37:12 -  There'll be no doubt in the sight of the nations in that day who in fact God is. There'll be no contention between deities
37:21 -  of whether it's Allah or the God of Jacob or some other imagined deity. One God has shown himself, the true God,
37:29 -  in the devastation and the extent of his judgment that falls upon the nation, upon the people, in the face of all nations.
37:37 -  And then he brings forth that tenth, that remnant, by the mercy, which is the other aspect of the nature which is his judgment, so that the nations at the end
37:48 -  see God in his judgment and his mercy as it is expressed upon the people of Israel, because that's our function.
37:59 -  We are his witness people in the earth, and we are more the witness in our apostasy and our sin than ever we have been in our virtue,
38:09 -  because it invites God's judgment and in God's performing it, and the magnitude and the extent of it,
38:15 -  the world will know that this is not an aberration of history or some strange fluke, but God himself fulfilling his own word.
38:26 -  So it was the task of the prophets, David writes, to hold up this mirror to the people of their own times when it was stated that Jehovah would one day have to say
38:35 -  in his wrath, he now said through the prophet in the same word that Moses had warned would be a judgment has now taken place,
38:45 -  they have rebelled against me, sums up the ingratitude of Israel, and traces it to its root,
38:51 -  applies to the whole history of Israel from its culminating point under David and Solomon down to the prophet's own time,
38:59 -  and that this judgment that would come was brought about by Israel's failure to receive or to respond to God's gracious offer,
39:10 -  come, let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they will be made white as snow.
39:17 -  Israel's refusal to accede to that offer brought the train of judgment that has continued throughout history and to this day.
39:26 -  When I attended a lecture by a rabbi in Phoenix on one visit speaking on the prophets, and they had the question and answer period,
39:35 -  I got up and I said, can you tell me when it is that we as a people and as a nation have ever acknowledged
39:43 -  the indictment against us in the prophets? It has never been acknowledged, and therefore never been repented of,
39:52 -  therefore we are still under the indictment and under the threat of the sword, which I'm saying will fall again in the last days
40:01 -  more furiously than ever before according to the words of the Lord Himself, because the mouth of the Lord has spoken it.
40:12 -  There are even greater things involved than Israel's chastisement through them, one of which I have already mentioned,
40:19 -  namely the testimony to the nations that the God of Jacob is God. By virtue of His judgment alone,
40:27 -  the breadth and the extent of it, and then the restoration that comes equally by His supernatural power in mercy.
40:35 -  You can't pray that away. That concludes the age, that's the final statement of God.
40:41 -  It chastises Israel, it prepares the nation for its own millennial destiny, and in the Holocaust book,
40:49 -  I quote from another precious commentator who describes a child being chastised by his father, not the little soft lick that we give
41:02 -  and maybe a little pout and it's over, but a chastisement where the child really catches the sting and the pain of the stroke
41:13 -  of the afflicting father, a severe chastisement until his soul is chastised through his flesh
41:22 -  and becomes broken in the experience, the awareness of the gravity that brought that chastisement upon him
41:31 -  strikes his heart, and though he may not be able to articulate it, he recognizes that the willingness
41:40 -  to bring chastisement of that kind is very love itself. I'm persuaded that we have raised up
41:49 -  a whole generation of spoiled and indulgent youth who are clamoring even through violence and through mayhem to catch the attention
41:59 -  of their parents and of their fathers for a demonstration of love that has never been afforded them,
42:06 -  mainly chastisement. There's something organic that nature itself requires
42:13 -  that makes a father a father in the sight of his son when the father in love
42:20 -  is able to bring the chastisement that his son so desperately needs and will not withhold it
42:27 -  because it's hard for him to perform it. Love will triumph over our own flesh's unwillingness
42:35 -  to bring the stroke. God the Father is not a soft sap. He's not going to defer to sentimentality.
42:44 -  He's not going to say, well, maybe it's when you've learned your lesson, I don't need, you had the Holocaust
42:50 -  in the Nazi time, I need not repeat it now. He'll bring what is needed to obtain the recognition
42:58 -  that the stroke did not come from men but from God and that it was intended for the good
43:05 -  of him who receives it. And this writer goes on to describe the son sobbing and throwing his head
43:13 -  on the shoulder of the father in the deepest bonding of love that is made possible only in judgment.
43:24 -  That's why you can't pray against this because you don't like it, because it's hard or because it's painful
43:32 -  or is there some other way. The title of my paper is The Inevitability of the Irrevocable
43:39 -  Cannot Be Taken Away Judgment of God on Israel at the End of the Age.
43:45 -  There are no ifs. It's something that must come because it fits Israel
43:52 -  in the brokenness and the repentance that follows to be the chastised people who can be the emissaries
43:59 -  of the Kingdom of God to all nations in the spirit of the Lamb in brokenness and in meekness
44:07 -  that comes out of the chastisement inflicted by the father on his son. Delich comments,
44:15 -  thus did Jehovah announce the way which had been irrevocably determined that he would take with Israel.
44:22 -  Don't try and talk God out of it through your prayers. You know what people are saying to me?
44:29 -  How then should we pray in a way that you have never perhaps prayed before,
44:35 -  although we boast about it, namely praying in the spirit. Praying out of well-meaning intentions,
44:41 -  praying out of I hope, I hope, I hope, praying out of sentimentality, may find yourself praying
44:47 -  in opposition to God's own program. How then shall we pray? We have to pray by the spirit
44:54 -  that knows the mind of God. In a word, remember I said at the beginning, the issue of Israel,
45:00 -  when it's properly perceived, brings such a re-examination of the totality of every aspect
45:08 -  of the faith and not the least of it is what is prayer? And how ought we to pray
45:14 -  in view of these things? We're brought to a radical ground where we can't pray
45:20 -  just out of our well-meaning intentions. We have to pray the mind of the Lord by his own spirit.
45:26 -  And for many, even charismatic believers, that's a new dimension of prayer. We have to be in agreement with God
45:35 -  and not in opposition because it has been irrevocably determined that he would take this way with Israel
45:43 -  as the only way to salvation. Moreover, this was the principle of the government of God,
45:49 -  the law of Israel's history. Quote, Zion will be redeemed through judgment
45:54 -  and her returning ones through righteousness. This judgment and chastisement and penalty is not arbitrary.
46:03 -  It's in proportion to Israel's own sin. And he says that sin carries the fire of indignation within itself.
46:13 -  Sin, from its very nature, bears its own punishment. So God is not unjust.
46:19 -  He's not giving Israel more than what Israel deserves. But as our sins, so also our judgment.
46:29 -  And David says, to this wrath Israel has delivered itself up through its continued obstinacy and sinning.
46:36 -  And the Lord now proceeded to shut the door of repentance against his people in chapter 6 of Isaiah.
46:42 -  The prophet inquires, how long? Because he knows that there's a God who is true to his promises
46:48 -  would not cast off Israel as a people forever and answers until the towns
46:53 -  are wasted without inhabitant, the houses without men, the ground laid waste,
46:59 -  and men shall be taken and put very far away. It's until Israel becomes impotent
47:10 -  and despairing and has no strength of itself, utterly desolate, without inhabitant, without man,
47:19 -  put far away. The commentator says that the Hebrew word means a description of exile and captivity.
47:29 -  And even those that survive, the tenth that remains, are subject to a sifting and to a judgment
47:35 -  after the old has been destroyed. And these words describe the way that God would henceforth
47:45 -  take with his people. It contains an outline of the history of Israel to the end of time.
47:52 -  It has not taken place yet. How do you know art? Because there's a people
47:58 -  who are still deaf in hearing, blind in seeing, and whose hearts are numb
48:03 -  and cannot perceive. That's the until. It's until these devastations take place.
48:10 -  So those devastations are future and we will see them. It will be painful for us.
48:17 -  And in fact, if we don't understand this prophetic scenario, we will become offended with God.
48:26 -  The first thing that we will say, and I've already heard it on this trip, but haven't they suffered enough already?
48:37 -  Or how could God allow this a second time? Unless we understand that this is the way of God with Israel,
48:46 -  a way that has been prophetically spoken and will yet be fulfilled, we ourselves as believers stand in danger
48:54 -  of finding ourselves in opposition to God and being displeased with God and ourselves becoming possibly apostate.
49:02 -  Because the sign of the last time for the church is a great falling away from the faith. And maybe not the least of the reasons
49:11 -  is a disappointment, particularly with regard to Israel, when the state that we had hoped would succeed
49:18 -  becomes devastated, made desolate, uninhabited, and the men cast very far away. Unless you understand that God has prophesied this
49:30 -  as irrevocable and necessary, you will find yourself offended with God and in danger of forfeiting the faith.
49:42 -  Because as the writer says, the passage contains an outline of the history of Israel to the end of time.
49:49 -  This law of blessing sunk in the depths of the curse actually inflicted still prevails in the history of the Jews.
49:56 -  And the author coins the phrase judgments of extermination. Isn't that something?
50:00 -  In 1870, 1880, a Hebrew Christian commentator writing from his examination of Isaiah 1 through 6
50:11 -  speaks of it as judgments of extermination, the word that has come into usage with the genocide of the Nazi holocaust.
50:20 -  Who could have, this is my comment, who could have foreseen then the systematic annihilation of European Jewry
50:27 -  that was to take place within the century to completely corroborate and confirm this commentator's exegesis, his analysis?
50:36 -  Who can now imagine a greater and more sweeping devastation yet to come predicated upon the very same word of Scripture?
50:45 -  Holy Saints, I'm dry as all get out. I can drink gallons of water. I can't get this word out.
50:52 -  But I'm pleading with you, this is not a little Bible study. This is an invitation to take the Word of God seriously
51:02 -  that speaks of the inevitability of Israel's final judgment, which is God's last act in history,
51:11 -  an act of such magnitude that the nations themselves will recognize, as will Israel, that this is the hand of God
51:22 -  in fulfillment of his very word, prophesied 2,000 years before Christ, or 1,000 years before Christ,
51:30 -  and yet to be fulfilled. For the Lord has spoken. David says it will only be after
51:40 -  the overthrow of the false glory of Israel that the true glory promised can possibly be realized. Talk about a remarkable comment,
51:49 -  the false glory of Israel. What is he talking about? He's talking about the establishment
51:54 -  of a Zionist Israel from 1948 to 1998, or whenever it will be brought down, as being a false glory.
52:03 -  He knows that of necessity, some state must be raised up in the Palestine that is today Israel,
52:11 -  and whatever its degree of success, it is a false glory, and that it is after the false glory is destroyed
52:21 -  that the true glory can possibly be realized. And that after the destruction of the great body of the people,
52:29 -  only a small remnant will live to see this realization. The great mass are hopelessly lost, and only when they have been swept away
52:38 -  will a holy seed saved by the covenant-keeping God grow up into a new and holy Israel, which will fill the earth with its fruits.
52:47 -  Isaiah 27 verse 6. Here's my final statement in this paper. What the implications are for the present state of Israel
52:59 -  we leave for the reader to ponder. If the present state is a false glory, that this commentator says
53:07 -  must be destroyed to reveal the true and the abiding glory, what can we reasonably expect?
53:14 -  And the remarkable thing is that everything is set in motion. The nation is not only surrounded
53:20 -  by enemies whose sole determination, according to their own covenant, to destroy Israel and cast it into the sea,
53:28 -  but it has now within its nation a Palestinian presence through the Oslo agreement
53:37 -  that was allowed a police force of 6,000 or 9,000, and they now estimate a military presence of 60,000 men armed to the teeth with the most sophisticated weapons
53:48 -  that had nothing to do with mere police activity. That's within the boundaries of Israel. Everything points to a coming devastation
53:57 -  from within and from without that the Delich could not have foreseen in 1860 or 1870,
54:06 -  and yet because of his scholarly examination of the Scriptures and the weighing up of the Hebrew meaning of these words,
54:13 -  he knows that this judgment was irrevocable and must come in the latter days. So what the implications are, we can imagine,
54:25 -  to hope for an improvement of its increasingly worsening condition, if this commentary is biblically accurate,
54:34 -  is a vain hope. Let me say that again. If you are still hoping that Israel
54:42 -  is somehow going to come out of it, despite God's prophesied judgments, and will improve its worsening moral condition,
54:50 -  that is a vain hope. What's another word for vain hope? Deception.
54:59 -  And if you are in a state of deception with regard to Israel, to what other regard are you safe?
55:07 -  You see how the issue of Israel touches all issues? If you are soft on Israel and can't fight the bullet of judgment
55:16 -  and have a vain hope, which is contradicted by Scripture itself, and you continue to hold that hope
55:25 -  whereas a better end for Israel, you are opening the door to deception not only about Israel,
55:33 -  but about anything and about everything. I would even go so far to say that some of the present movements
55:42 -  taking place in America that are touted as revival and the power and demonstration of God
55:49 -  may be the most remarkable deceptions and that a people who have not understood the judgment of God
55:58 -  as a definitive principle of God are open and susceptible because of their disposition
56:07 -  towards sentimentality and wanting the best view that makes them susceptible to those deceptions. Can I tell you what happened to me
56:16 -  when I was invited to a conference on the North American Indian in Ottawa, Canada? It came suddenly out of fax and boom,
56:24 -  within a day I was there and I will ever be grateful for having gone. It was a massive demonstration to me
56:32 -  of last day's deception and all evangelical churches and charismatic representatives were there.
56:38 -  If I told you the names of the speakers, you would know them. And I heard things from their lips
56:45 -  that I just gasped. There was one particular service where they had set up a microphone
56:52 -  in a room about this size. It wasn't the large morning meetings and people were invited to repent
57:00 -  for their misconduct against the Indian. The couple that I was with are from Canada. They had invited me
57:08 -  and the ladies' family had been administrators in Canada against the Indians and through them had come much injustice.
57:17 -  So what I saw was people wanting cathartic relief from the burden of guilt, going to the microphone
57:27 -  and so literally crying their few tears and a little sob and experiencing the momentary relief.
57:34 -  I sat there like a piece of lead. People around me were weeping and mopping their faces.
57:40 -  I was in my spirit completely untouched. How do you measure anything? Do you measure from the internal depth
57:48 -  of the reality of your life which is in your spirit or do you measure from your soul,
57:54 -  from what you see, what you feel, what the impression is by the psychological and emotional kinds of things
58:00 -  that are moving upon you? I was totally unmoved and finally they noticed it.
58:07 -  They didn't say, we're driving home, the meeting is over. And sure enough they turned to me in the car
58:12 -  and they said, what did you think of tonight? I said, here's what I think.
58:19 -  I think that God was profoundly missed and that had people waited on the spirit of God for the real thing
58:29 -  we might have seen an authentic repentance and turning. But because the stage was set for a soulish orgy of cathartic relief
58:39 -  and release through emotion and that we acted hastily on that basis we missed the better and the truer work of God.
58:47 -  And they said, how come you were not impressed? How come you were not sucked in? I said, well, well,
58:56 -  I think it's because of my position on Israel. What do you mean? What has Israel to do with the American Indian?
59:04 -  And I said, you know, sometimes you say the best things when you don't predetermine. I said, because I had been willing to surrender
59:14 -  to the truth of God's inevitable judgments something has come into my spirit of a kind that preserves and saves me from deceptions
59:27 -  that would otherwise have sucked me in or seduced me from my soul. There's something about the embrace
59:35 -  of the judgments of God that is a very provision for God, for the church not only with regard to Israel, but any issue at all.
59:51 -  That's how much we have lost by our ignorance of God's prophetic view of Israel in the last days
59:59 -  and the substitution of our own agenda and programs because of a natural and human desire to see a people blessed.
01:00:07 -  That's very natural, but it's not spiritual. So even our best well-meaning prayers are ineffectual if not in keeping
01:00:16 -  with the carefully delineated statements of the divine will given in scripture. If our prayer is going to be effectual
01:00:23 -  it's got to be in keeping with the word of God. To spurn therefore the prophetic testimony of ultimate judgment before ultimate restoration
01:00:32 -  is due likely to a sanguine sentimentality concerning not only Israel, but human nature itself. What the issue of Israel is revealing
01:00:47 -  is not just our attitude about Israel, but our attitude period where we have substituted a sanguine, you know what that is?
01:00:57 -  A kind of happy, we want a nice ending, a sentimentality that wants a happy ending for the carefully delineated word of God itself.
01:01:14 -  This was always our condition, but it's the issue of Israel that has revealed it. And so what happens in our life, our families,
01:01:25 -  our relationships, our disappointed marriages, our divorces, the kinds of things where our expectation was disappointed,
01:01:35 -  our sentiment was bruised, are all part and parcel of the same thing. And it was unrecognized by us,
01:01:46 -  but the issue of Israel reveals it. Their sentiment shows itself for what it is in a desire for a happy end
01:01:58 -  contrary to the clearly articulated word of God. If you're going to defy the word of God and insist on your feelings,
01:02:07 -  you have made yourself a candidate for deception, not only about Israel, but about anything and about everything.
01:02:18 -  The issue of Israel is the issue of the Church, much more than we have ever imagined. And that's why I can say in some charismatic fellowships
01:02:28 -  when I catch the spirit of their relationship with Israel, that schmaltzy thing where you want to pinch the cheek of a Jew and run to plant the tree and so on,
01:02:37 -  you know what I say to them? What you're exhibiting here is as much opposed to the purposes of God for Israel
01:02:44 -  as if you were an anti-Semite. Only to be prophetically aligned with God is to be in the true place
01:02:52 -  and to be allied with God in His purposes. Why must God be that severe with Israel? Is He being cruel?
01:03:02 -  Only if you understand Israel's eternal, millennial and eternal destiny will you not think God's judgment is too severe.
01:03:11 -  He's chastising Israel, the son, the servant son to serve the nations, not only in proportion to her past sins,
01:03:20 -  but to her future glory. Only a broken nation can be, through Jordan and Saudi Arabia
01:03:27 -  and Iran and Iraq, the emissaries of God without the proud contempt and disdain
01:03:33 -  that Jews presently hold for Gentiles. It'll take a severe breaking and chastisement to bring us to the place where we will go
01:03:42 -  in the spirit of the Lamb to Iraq and Iran and be able to present God, the God of Jacob, in a way that they can be turned from Allah
01:03:51 -  to the truth of the living God. Can you see that? Unless you understand Israel's destiny,
01:03:57 -  you will be offended by how far God will go to prepare the nation for that destiny. So to understand Israel's destiny
01:04:05 -  is to understand millennial things, theocratic things, eschatological things. So you're brought into the place
01:04:13 -  of the consideration of the end that is presently as much lost to the Church as the fear of God and all of the other things
01:04:21 -  that have been omitted. The issue of Israel, remarkably, is the issue of the Church.
01:04:29 -  So once again, it is the issue of Israel that uniquely reveals the secret heart of the Church. This is true not only for those who reject
01:04:36 -  any future for Israel, but those also who persist in expectations contrary to the revealed will of God.
01:04:44 -  You know what I said to a brother on the way up? I said, you know why we have a lot of trouble with the Church and find ourselves unhappy
01:04:51 -  and looking for greener pastures elsewhere? Because we have never understood and made our peace with the fact
01:04:58 -  that the Church is first a place of suffering before it's a place of glory. It's not intended for our convenience
01:05:05 -  or for our enjoyment. It's in its first exercise a place of suffering. I don't know about you.
01:05:13 -  I have suffered more in the Church than anywhere being opposed by Jews in street meetings where I've been kicked in the shins
01:05:21 -  or spit in the face or called names. There's nothing next to the insult, the indignities, the digs, the humiliations
01:05:29 -  that come to you in the Church from other believers. Not because they're necessarily malicious. It's because that's what we are
01:05:37 -  in the condition that we are as we constitute the Church. And it's because we're soft,
01:05:44 -  because we thought it should be a place of relaxation or ease or the end of a hard work week and not a place of pain,
01:05:51 -  of confrontation, of difficulty, of chastisement, of dealings and of judgments that we run elsewhere.
01:05:59 -  What if we did the same thing with our wives or wives with the husbands if we proved a disappointment
01:06:06 -  and it didn't turn out to be the happy thing we thought we were entering, and instead we came into a whole new dimension
01:06:13 -  and breadth of problems, of difficulties, of heartbreak, of painful consideration
01:06:19 -  that is in the very nature of the truth of real relationship whether it's marriage or the Church.
01:06:25 -  We have been idealistic, vain, romantic, imaginary, deceived. The Church that is intended
01:06:33 -  as the ground and pillar of truth is the most flabby, out of shape, soft and undisciplined entity in the world.
01:06:44 -  What can we hope for then from the world itself if we are not able to love and embrace truth, righteousness, justice, judgment,
01:06:55 -  and we ourselves are sugarcoating or devising a way of faith that is soft? The issue is not the success of the Church
01:07:07 -  or the success of Israel. What's the issue? The glory of God.
01:07:13 -  And there's a suffering that precedes a glory. If we only want a successful Church, we don't have to go through this kind of pain.
01:07:22 -  If we only want to see a successful homeland for Israel, they don't have to go through this kind of chastisement. But if we're talking about the millennial
01:07:29 -  and eternal glory of God, for which all nations shall come up to Jerusalem to celebrate the God of Israel
01:07:35 -  who has revealed himself in judgment and in mercy, suffering must precede the glory. Let's get real, folks,
01:07:45 -  because if we're not real with Israel, we're not real, period. The issue of Israel uniquely reveals
01:07:55 -  the secret heart of the Church. And that is true not only for those who reject any future prison, but those who persist in expectations
01:08:03 -  contrary to the revealed will of God. Both need to be broken upon the rock of Christ Jesus. That is, upon the irrefutable centrality of the cross.
01:08:15 -  The issue of the suffering and the glory is the issue of the cross. Not only for Jesus as Savior, but also for the nation Israel as for ourselves.
01:08:28 -  And the fact that we are humanistic and sentimental and resist the subject of judgment shows that we have not come to that cross.
01:08:37 -  Our very sentimentality, our very humanism, its insistence on an agenda or a solution other than what God says in the Word
01:08:48 -  shows there's a flesh there that has never been brought to the cross. Talking with our brother today, our older brother, and he gives me the email from another Israeli precious brother.
01:09:04 -  He says, Art, isn't this what you believe? They also speak about a suffering term. I said, but my dear man, there's suffering and suffering,
01:09:10 -  there's trouble and trouble. They think it's a thing that will come but will pass. I'm talking about the defeat of the nation.
01:09:17 -  I'm talking about the loss of Israel as a political entity. I'm talking about captivity, expulsion into the nations. I'm talking about such heartbreak and sorrow and distress
01:09:26 -  as cannot be imagined and that they are unwilling to swallow whole. And I doubt if they have received the cross in its full meaning as well. Because the hope for something other than what God says in a nicer ending
01:09:48 -  betrays and reveals the absence of the work of the cross in the person that continues to hold that kind of expectation for Israel. And in my 35 years as a believer, I think I can say
01:10:00 -  that every issue in the last analysis when you're scratched deeply enough is the issue of the cross. And if anything could be said for the Church today,
01:10:11 -  even in its best charismatic form, it has been a cross-avoiding body. As our resistance to judgment reveals, even to receive the issue of judgment begrudgingly is not enough, saints.
01:10:28 -  Well, I guess I got to. It says so in the Word. You know when you have really met the cross? When you love the judgments of God.
01:10:39 -  Because you know it's the statement of his righteousness. You love him in his judgments. You desire his judgments even for yourself.
01:10:48 -  You don't count it an horrific thing, but a precious thing. The alternative, if we're unwilling for this, is to elevate Israel to the place of idolatry
01:11:04 -  whose very condition makes judgment inevitable and to be offended by the God through whom the judgment comes. In the last analysis, there's no middle ground.
01:11:18 -  Either we have agreed with God's prophetic declarations of irrevocable judgment, or we will find ourselves offended by him, opposed to him, and opposed to his dealings, and out of the faith.
01:11:33 -  Judgment needs to be restored to the Church, and the issue of Israel is compelling when it is rightly seen by unsparing exegesis in the Scripture,
01:11:47 -  the drawing out of the meaning despite the implications of that, that are painful to our own hearts. So Lord, to whatever degree, this was your heart tonight.
01:12:04 -  To sound the theme like this, for which we are not fitted nor prepared. Our culture does not prepare us for this. It's an Alice in Wonderland culture.