Israel in Ezekiel 37

00:00 -  I'm about to discharge something of an epochal kind, E-P-O-C-H-A-L, a chapter with which we are all familiar but not familiar enough, and that needs to be reviewed and be seen in the light of present and future circumstance, and to be seen prophetically, which is my
00:20 -  privilege and my calling, is to consider a prophetic text prophetically. And I'm talking about Ezekiel chapter 37, the Valley of Dry Bones, and I have to tell you a little bit of the history of the message for me.
00:34 -  I was familiar with it as every Saint is, but I have looked upon it as somehow being a resonance of the past of dry bones, probably some kind of allusion to the Holocaust, where Jews were actually reduced to that condition, but that the Lord stirred my heart to re-examine
00:54 -  this text with the first outbreak of the Interfather. From the first stones that were thrown, I was led to reconsider this text, and I knew from the first stones, this is the beginning of the end.
01:09 -  What begins as modestly as a few stones thrown by children will end in the devastation of the state, and the dry bones that are depicted in this chapter. In my own speaking of this, from this text, in Israel, interesting to note that there
01:31 -  had been a five-year interval in which I had not visited Israel at all, which was unusual because from the time virtually that I was saved in Jerusalem 40 years ago, we had been coming back almost annually, ministering to the body of Christ or coming with a Ben Israel
01:47 -  tour, but there was a five-year interval, interesting number of grace, no visit at all, and then the first visit after that time, moving through the land, I did not speak once on any subject.
02:00 -  The next time I came with this text and spoke it seven times, three times in Jerusalem, to the greatest shouts and hoots and hollers and cries and screams that I have ever been occasioned to hear from people and from fellowships that had known me for years.
02:20 -  Katz, I'm trying to remember some of the statements, you haven't changed, you're as loveless as ever, and things worse than that, like you would not believe. The outbreak and anger to my presentation from this text, maybe you'll understand why,
02:40 -  because the subtitle was Ezekiel 37, the Valley of Dry Bones, the necessary death and resurrection of Israel, not the optional, the necessary. So I'm letting you know to share this with you, because if I have a handle on this
03:02 -  appropriate in God's sight, it will be a perspective for you who are in the land to anticipate it, to know the things that shall shortly come to pass. So Lord, thank you for directing me again to this text, and like this in any text that
03:20 -  pertains to Israel in the last days, there's never two speakings alike. And so give this speaking appropriate now for this time, to this place, to the Circle of Saints, in this city and this land and this hour, to write your own soul word and fulfill
03:38 -  your heart in it. We thank and give you praise in Jesus' name. Open our inner ear and help us to understand things as you would have us to see them.
03:49 -  So Lord, am I required to read the text? Is it familiar to everyone? That begins with, The hand of the Lord came upon me, and he brought me out by the
03:59 -  spirit of the Lord and set me down in the middle of the valley. It was full of bones. He led me all around them.
04:07 -  There were very many lying in the valley, and they were very dry. He said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? I answered, O Lord God, you know, or you alone know.
04:23 -  And that's the beginning of this remarkable statement. And so we're introduced in the beginning with the two principal objects of God's concern, not just the dry bones, but the Son of man.
04:39 -  And both occupy significant place in God's consideration. The dry bones are almost for the purpose of the Son of man, and the Son of man is for the purpose of the dry bones.
04:52 -  That is to say, as we read from this text, that those bones are not brought back to life by any act directly of God himself, but only and exclusively through that which is wrought by the Son of man, who I see, if you'll allow me this indulgence, as a symbolic statement
05:13 -  of the Church of the last days. Because if this is a last day's statement, as I believe it is, and a future statement, because this death has not yet been obtained, but is in process of being obtained.
05:26 -  If you receive this perspective, it's a way of understanding the increasing calamity of Israel as not something that can be resolved or even explained. This is one of the embarrassments for Christian Zionists who have to justify Israel
05:43 -  in her increasingly difficult conduct to justify, which I will tell you will become worse. And much more sinful, and much more violent, much more oppressive, out of the very necessity for the preservation of the state.
05:57 -  That's the irony, that's the predicament into which the nation has been brought by its own volition, by its own nature, by its own attempt humanly and politically, as only Jews could perhaps attempt it, to establish what can only be given by God.
06:15 -  No lasting fulfillment of Israel's prophetic destiny, not as a state but as a nation, and a blessing to all the families of the earth, can ever be fulfilled by anything that man himself can perform, even Jewish men, or especially Jewish men.
06:33 -  Because Jewish man is the summation of all that is in man. He is man personified in everything that has to do with human presumption, arrogance, pride, self-sufficiency, for which we Jews are remarkable throughout our history,
06:52 -  but especially in modern times. For who else can come out of a holocaust with tattooed legs and a number and within a generation take a malarial wasteland and turn it into a modern state that this is?
07:06 -  But we, who are the church, need to understand, as I repeat many times in every place, the issue of Israel is not the issue of the success of a state. However much that is to be humanly desired, I mean, haven't we been knocked around long enough
07:25 -  as Jews and been an object of persecution, oppression, in other nations that it's time that we had our own. So there's everything humanly to commend the establishment of a home. But the greater issue is not that issue, but the issue of God's glory.
07:52 -  Israel is a witness to God, not for itself to show forth its own proficiency, which indeed has won the admiration of the world and especially the evangelical church, which I had much to say about that, but I don't know that this is the time.
08:09 -  But the very admiration of the church for Israel's human accomplishment betrays a lack of understanding of God's own condemnation of man, out of which no good thing can come. To celebrate Jewish man or Israeli man is to fly in the face of God's own judgment upon man per se,
08:32 -  whether he's Jewish or not. So what we need to understand is God is making a statement to the nations, to the world, about humanism and human presumption.
08:45 -  And there's no better way, more dramatic way, more powerful way to make that statement than through that nation that is the very personification and the exemplification of man at his best. And so the irony is that man at his best will become man at his worst.
09:03 -  And that the great central principle in reality is the cross, exemplified by Jesus in his own suffering and death, that if the Son of Man, who was the exemplification of man in his humanity in his most perfect expression,
09:24 -  could not succeed and would not be allowed to succeed on the basis of his humanity, though there were many who wanted to make him king even then, that he was required to pass away suffering and a death and a resurrection
09:39 -  and an ascension and an enthronement, what then shall the nation experience who is called also to be a son in his very image. So I have to confess that my central principle of interpretation is the cross.
09:58 -  And when you bring that to bear, and we've been viewing prophecy and things pertaining to Israel, it gives a whole different way of seeing. And that the many adversaries that I have in the nation, former friends,
10:14 -  I can almost say that the issue between us is the issue of the proximity to the cross. Even the presumption that they would have a better way of perceiving the prophetic issue because they're living in the land, that I should be able to pursue that living in the wilderness
10:29 -  of northern Minnesota is itself a humanistic presumption, that somehow physical proximity gives a better understanding than one who's at a distance, as if the issue is geographical rather than prophetic.
10:44 -  So I would want to say spatial distance is not the key to proper understanding, rather proximity to the cross rather than proximity within the land is the greater issue. Okay, if the son of man is the key to Israel's restoration,
11:03 -  we need really to examine what is represented here and why it is that God will not allow Israel to be destroyed independent of that son of man. The same God who prayed, who brooded over the chaos in Genesis and spoke and created let there be,
11:25 -  could as easily have brooded over the chaos in which Israel is presently moving, but does not. Rather he employs another and the employment is not compulsory but voluntary. And yet it begins with the hand of the Lord came upon me
11:43 -  and brought me diamond out and into the valley of dry bones, indicating somehow that the son of man is a prophet. He's a prophet who chooses to remain above and outside the beautiful spectacle
11:56 -  and the grim reality of Israel's death. He wants to occupy a charismatic realm where he could be celebrated as being prophetic and he needs to be brought out and down and into.
12:09 -  And so here again, if this is a statement of the Church of the last days, we will not be able to prophesy, which is to say to speak for God in the authority of God that raises the dead until we first see as God sees.
12:27 -  So it's interesting that the early prophets were called seers. That is to say they saw as God sees. And I want to tell you if you don't know it,
12:35 -  that seeing is profoundly different than other than the way that we see. So there's a necessity for the hand of the Lord to come upon us and even to welcome that hand because you know it's not going to bring you
12:49 -  into things pleasant or convenient but into a requirement which itself is a suffering that you would rather avoid. We don't like to look upon ugly things.
13:00 -  We don't want to consider death. And we always want to take, if you don't know my language, a more sanguine, happier view of things and see the rosier side.
13:11 -  But that's the human side, but it's not the side as God sees it. So the first requirement that we're going to speak for God is to see as God sees. And for that reason, the Son of Man is brought down and out and into.
13:28 -  Anyone who has a history in God prophetically knows what I'm talking about. You're brought out and down and into. And I don't want to take the time to even touch biographical details,
13:44 -  but to say that our whole involvement prophetically with the subject of Israel the last days began by being brought out of Plainfield, New Jersey, where I was a charismatic darling and had been prophesied by Moish Rosen
13:59 -  that by the time I was 50 I would be the Jewish Billy Graham. And he had every reason to expect that. I was good-looking at that time and well-spoken.
14:10 -  And I had all the attributes that would have made for a successful charismatic Jewish Billy Graham. I saw Rosen recently and said, Your prophecy was wrong.
14:20 -  It would have been fulfilled if you didn't allow yourself to be taken out from Plainfield, New Jersey in the charismatic realm where you were a success and Catherine Pullman had adopted you and allowed yourself to be brought
14:33 -  into the wilderness of northern Minnesota and lived there for 30 years in total obscurity where those who had known you charismatically felt you had died. That is to say, you forfeited every prospect for being this success
14:50 -  by allowing yourself to be brought out and down and into a much more grim environment. The Lord did not bring us to Fort Lauderdale, Florida. He brought us to a place that not the least of the reasons was to sift out
15:06 -  those who would have come out of curiosity or the kinds of reasons that people gravitate to at ministries that are convenient. Northern Minnesota is not convenient, especially when we live the first 10 years
15:16 -  beneath the poverty level established by the American government with much hardship, but having everything to do with this calling. And by the way, I was up in that area as a speaker and someone said,
15:32 -  there's a property for sale, what would you give us here? I said, well, why not? I had no sort of other living in that forsaken, God-forsaken remote place.
15:40 -  We had a 17-room house in New Jersey. I had two volvos. I was a charismatic darling, formal spokesman for the messianic movement.
15:50 -  And so they took me to this banquet boys' camp with a chain across the road, no trespassing. I got out of the car and stepped over the chain.
15:58 -  When my foot came down on the property, these are the exact words of the word, Dominion, by the way, I will say by the exact words of the word, spoken to me in Jerusalem on King George Street at the bookstore
16:11 -  that then belonged to the Somers of God into which I had wandered as lost. So I'm hearing again the same voice that served me, called me by name, and commanded me to remain at that bookstore, came out four days later, saved.
16:23 -  That same voice spoke to me when my foot came down on the ground, Dominion, end-time teaching center, community, refuge. Well, I put the word refuge on the shelf.
16:34 -  I thought, what could that be? That's probably the Church of the Last Days and its persecution, which we anticipate. But I want to tell you now with complete assurance that the Lord has made clear
16:45 -  it's a place of refuge for Jews in flight from persecution in North America. So we have been 30 years in this remote location, establishing a place that can receive Jews in flight.
17:01 -  And they may come from distant places. We are 100 miles from the Canadian border, but there is, in the words, revelation of this calling, a remarkable tandem connection with Mexico,
17:14 -  which is one of my coming destinations in my next trip, and where I've been several times before, and where I've been told by the saints where I'll be again in Monterey, Mexico,
17:24 -  that long before you came, the Lord had already spoken to us, that Monterey, or the environment around it, would be a place for the assembly of Jews that would be coming down through North America
17:37 -  and before their remarkable return to Zion as they redeemed the Lord with mourning and sighing, fleeing away, everlasting joy being upon their heads. I'm just taking a few minutes to say that much, to say that my reading of prophetic scripture
17:53 -  is not only the revelation by the Spirit and in keeping with, I believe, what is my call, that God does give to men of this call a particular grasp that is not available to others, which makes others dependent on the recognition and the receiving of the word
18:11 -  as it comes to the office that God himself has given and that no man has sought. So, excuse me, all of that celebration of the five-fold ministry, now the weather hits the road. Do we really recognize that five-fold, what it comes to us,
18:28 -  and hear the word spoken through that called one in a way that would not be available to us by our own examination, except through what he, in his office and calling, is allowed to perceive and to express?
18:43 -  It is a remarkable question now before the body of Christ and test of its own maturity. So, these saints in Mexico, long before you came out, they had already told us that we should expect Jews in the last days coming in flight.
18:58 -  And so this joins with this prophetic understanding, butchered by the fact that we have spent 30 years in Northern Minnesota and sacrificed to establish a community that can receive Jews in flight,
19:11 -  because if they're in flight from persecution, they're not going to arrive in their best condition. They're going to be disgruntled. They're going to be unkempt. They're going to be completely disheveled because of the suddenness through which this calamity comes
19:26 -  and find themselves being brought to places in the world where no Jew would ever think to set in flight. Wilderness places, because it says in Ezekiel chapter 20, I will meet with you face to face in the wilderness of the nations,
19:39 -  so I have a complete freedom wherever I travel in the world, whatever nation, to say you can expect Jews in flight. In New Zealand or Australia, it doesn't matter, even Egypt had told them to expect Jews in flight,
19:57 -  because Amos chapter 9 says, I will sift you through all nations. So there's a global scenario of remarkable proportions that is yet to break forth for which the church needs to be in anticipation and in preparation.
20:12 -  The fact that the word said community refuge is not a mere succession of words, but there is no refuge without community. Jews in that condition will be such a demand that no saint, however much of which you also can bear it,
20:29 -  it will take the corporate tested strength of a community to receive the impact because it will be wave after wave of Jews coming through and then you move them on to the next place. Because as I'm fond of saying, the Lord's strategy will not be the shortest distance between two points,
20:48 -  but even bringing Jews through several nations in a three and a half year period of time so that they can be sifted and recognized that whatever the nation or the race of men for which they pass, they see the same universal qualities of patience, forbearance, unconditional love and mercy,
21:09 -  because Paul says that by your mercy they may obtain mercy. We're moving toward a time when if Jews will not receive mercy, they will perish. And even in that time, I think we can reasonably expect remarkable attrition
21:25 -  that two-thirds of all Jews present in the world will not survive this time, but a remnant that will be constant until the redeemed of the world. So this is, you see, the remarkable thing that we bear and seek to communicate to the church.
21:42 -  Okay. This prophet, which is the statement of the church on its last days' prophetic constituency, brought to a place of maturity where if it does not come to that place, Israel remains dead. Paul said that the form and the way of them has brought blessing to the Gentiles.
22:05 -  Where will the return of them be but life from the dead, literally life from the dead? And what a life they will bring. And only in that life can they bless all the families of the earth. Not to impress them with Jewish expertise and ability,
22:20 -  but with a new quality of life in which they are imbued, which is available only through death. Not only for them, but for us. In fact, if the son of man himself does not pass through death and resurrection, his own prophesying is vain.
22:37 -  It will be false prophecy. It will bounce. It will fall to the ground. It will not so much as stir those bones and iota. That the son of man has the requirement himself to be a piece of resurrection reality.
22:50 -  That's one of the reasons for his being bred out and down from the charismatic evangelical realm where resurrection was not its requirement. Only goodness and facility with speaking and personal charm and charisma of a humankind
23:05 -  was sufficient to establish his prophetic credential. That characterizes most, if not both, of those who purport to be prophets today, in my own opinion. There's a death that's necessary for the Church of the last days, if it is to address those graveons.
23:25 -  Because well-meaning intention and right, correct speaking, if it is not out of the life of God and imbued by the power of God, cannot raise bones to life. So the issue of Israel in the last days and her true restoration is not Israel, it's the Church.
23:44 -  Of necessity, Israel has got to be brought to the place of total inertness and incapacity to save itself. Why? Because we are so much the statement of human presumption and arrogance and self-sufficiency. We cannot be allowed to succeed on that basis or it defeats the whole ideological purpose of God
24:06 -  in using Israel as a witness nation to communicate to the world that humanism is a dead end, that human self-sufficiency is a lie, that the prince of this world plays upon it and encourages it, but in the end it cannot achieve anything of an enduring, let alone eternal value,
24:24 -  that man without God is a contradiction in terms and that if Israel is to be a glory, how does Paul end his remarkable statement in Romans 11 that through him are offerings to whom be glory forever? The issue for the Apostle as the issue for us is not even Israel's redemption
24:46 -  or even the Church's coming of age to obtain that, but through Israel and the Church, the glory of God forever. The issue of glory is always and invariably the issue of resurrection and the issue of resurrection is invariably the issue of death.
25:02 -  We need to know, if I'm sensing rightly, what God is about. This nation is on its way to death and its complexities and contradictions will be compounded. No stratagem, however clever, whether it's the withdrawal from Gaza or any other kinds of things
25:21 -  to which human ingenuity can conceive, will in the end save the nation from unnecessary death because there's a necessary resurrection. The issue of Israel is the issue of the nations and we read the end of the chapter where Israel has been brought back by the Son of Man
25:40 -  and returned to the land because the death takes place not only in the land but in the nations. God raises them out of their graves in the nations and I will then return you. We will see two distinct returns, one first attempted by man, the Zionist return as of 1948,
26:00 -  impressive and yet most of necessity condemned to failure and the I will return which will endure eternally because it says in Amos 9, I will plant you in the land and you will not again be plucked up or cast out. When God does it is very different than when man does it
26:19 -  and somehow it's necessary millennially and eternally that we know the difference because we're called to be a witness nation, a nation of priests and a light into the world. We've got to know God as the God of resurrection, not theoretically or abstractly or doctrinally
26:36 -  but in the actuality of our experience as being raised from the dead. It's incumbent upon this nation to pass through that experience. So we need to recognize that the calamity, the perplexities that will mount are not to be humanly resolved
26:57 -  except for that one interlude when Antichrist through the acceptance of a spiritually dulled nation will bring a momentary three and a half year peace of a false kind which later breaks upon their heads in uttermost devastation to commence the time of Jacob's trouble
27:16 -  and bring the death that is depicted in these scriptures. I'm glad this is being recorded because there's no way you can in one hearing receive all of this but you'll have opportunity to ponder this among yourselves later
27:31 -  and check out some of the scriptures I mentioned in passing, Ezekiel 20, Amos 9. Ezekiel 36 speaks about the cities that will be rebuilt and brought back from ruin and devastation upon this return indicating that the last experience of present Israel is also devastation and destruction.
27:52 -  The land has become our destruction, it says in Isaiah. Chapter 4 of Isaiah, the city of Jerusalem is purified by the spirit of destruction and of burning. So in many places there's a picture of widespread devastation.
28:08 -  Isaiah chapter 6, when the prophet is told to prophesy in order that Israel's heart will be hardened and her ears stop as judgment through your word the prophet says, but how long work?
28:24 -  This can't be your final statement. Yes, you're a God of judgment, but judgment is not your final statement. It's your penultimate statement. It's your next to last statement.
28:33 -  The last statement is always mercy, restoration, return. And so it's a valid question, how long will they be stopped in their ears? And anyone who's been involved with Jews, as I have as a missionary to the Jews
28:44 -  and even now resided in New York for that purpose again, comes smacked up against a wholesale national dumbness and intractability and incapability of hearing, seeing and considering until the until is fulfilled.
29:00 -  And what is the until? Until the cities are left without an inhabitant, the nation is left in ruins and there's widespread wholesale devastation and destruction.
29:10 -  There is a calamity coming, an apocalyptic disaster that somehow is spoken in all the prophets and that the nation that we now presently know and occupy is not given to succeed but to fail. And that somehow it's necessary to suffer this death in order to obtain the resurrection
29:30 -  of the everlasting millennial glory that God intends Israel to be when it will call Jerusalem, not God is our righteousness. Can you imagine what it will take to move from the present mentality to that acknowledgement?
29:47 -  Nothing less than death and resurrection. So we're not speaking in poetic and literary terms as an allegory of the actuality of a very real death, very real resurrection.
30:02 -  But the key, as I've said, is not Israel. Israel must of necessity be rendered inert. It cannot be a factor in its own restoration because that would bring about the wrong bursting.
30:15 -  The indication of that is when we read verse 11 here, God is waiting for the statement. When they themselves say, our bones are dried up, our hope is lost, we are cut off completely. Therefore, prophesy unto them.
30:34 -  The prophesying waits upon the acknowledgement of the nation. They are totally incapacitated for anything. And anyone who knows anything of Jewish history to this moment knows this national acknowledgement
30:49 -  has never been made, that we are completely cut off. We are without hope. The whole national anthem, HaTikva, is the hope, but it's not the hope of God.
30:59 -  Therefore, it's a false hope. Therefore, it's got to perish. And that acknowledgement must come from the nation itself,
31:06 -  that where they will be so reduced, we are cut off, we are without hope. So what about the Holocaust and the six million? Did they come out with this statement?
31:18 -  Not at all. They came out with another statement, never again. When you go to Dachau today, or Auschwitz, or Treblinka,
31:27 -  I visited every concentration camp I think that there is. And two out of three of them will have a monument in many languages with the words, never again. Never again.
31:39 -  Can you get the sense of that? Talk about chutzpah. Talk about arrogance of conceit.
31:46 -  Yes, it implies we were victims because we were powerless. You know, Jews stroking our beards as we contemplated the Talmud. But now, with a state of this magnitude, and the number one air force,
31:58 -  and atomic arsenal, and high tech, never again. Well, you'll eat those words. Never say never.
32:08 -  And you must come to the place where your tune changes, because until it will, the prophet will not be commanded to prophesy. God waits for a national acknowledgement of complete human inactitude,
32:24 -  because it's a statement that must be made for the hearing of all nations, because Israel is occasioned by God for that purpose. That's the witness that human confidence can never suffice.
32:40 -  God is the issue, but only at the point where man comes to the end of himself. So what then must be the destiny of the son of man, when God brings him down and out and into the dry bones,
32:54 -  and moves him around and rubs his face right into the grit of it, and then taunts him with the question, son of man, can these bones live? By the way, any prophetic man, like myself,
33:06 -  is continually stabbed by the consciousness that we are sons of men. Son of man, you defecating, urinating, sweating, defective, imperfect piece of humanity. Can you do this? Can you speak this? Can you perform this?
33:22 -  Can you be my mouthpiece that out of your earthen lips, out of the unresolved contradictions of your own life, my statements will go forth, no less than if I had made them myself?
33:35 -  It's terrifying. The contradiction between our humanity, that is so clearly defective, and the requirement to be a mouthpiece for God.
33:46 -  Son of man, can these bones live? And the son of man falters. He chokes, and he says, because what the God is asking is so much beyond charismatic evangelical pseudo-faith
34:01 -  that believes for Catholics and believes for this, that, and the other. This is believing in a dimension beyond human faith, however well-meaning, however charismatically adorned.
34:15 -  I used to bring a bone with me when I preached this message, and I would hand it out to the congregation and let it circulate as I'm speaking. It would be a wonder that anything would remain of it by the time it comes back to me,
34:27 -  because the thing decomposes in your hand. Your hand becomes white and chalky from the bone that is dry. The God is saying, this is absolutely impossible.
34:40 -  It's beyond even your own faith to believe, your own faith to address, because when you speak to those bones at my command, after they have acknowledged, they're cut off completely.
34:51 -  It's got to be by a faith greater than your own. It's got to be by a faith that works by love, not schmaltzy sentimentality, not this Germanic affinity for Israel or the playing out of an unresolved guilty conscience will never work.
35:09 -  That has to die. That's the very thing that has to die. Anything that is a human substitute in the realm of sentiment or pseudo-propheticness, which is rampant closer to home than you know,
35:24 -  has got to die for the true thing to come forth, and those bones remain inert. It's got to be, and it's a willing death. There's nothing about any of this thing here that is compulsory, that grabs God of his glory.
35:42 -  Our death has got to be as voluntary as that of Jesus himself. And it's not a death to our hangups or to our defects, which we would be all too willing to experience,
35:54 -  but to our virtues, to the things that we want most to retain, and that even may have initially been given by God, and have some spiritual semblance and validity to it,
36:06 -  and yet stands in the way of the portality to which God calls a man into a death, that he might be raised up into the true thing that alone can restore Israel. So this is only hint at that.
36:21 -  That's why we need to read between the lines, and that's why I'm escalating and taking the liberty of drawing out a fuller picture, because it's the death to which you're called.
36:34 -  The Church is the agent of God's restoration for Israel, but not in her present condition. And the thing that stands most in the way is not the Church's carnality, but the Church's spirituality. The Church's identification with Israel, but not on the true basis,
36:50 -  not prophetically nor apostolically, but sentimentally, is as much an obstruction to the purposes of God as anti-Semitic rejection or indifference. That's why death has concaved.
37:05 -  It cleans the house. However subtle these things are that impede the flow of God's life, only death can find them out and only death can deal with it.
37:14 -  We can't even identify these various elements. They're too subtle, but death meets them. That's why I love the work of the cross and the necessity for resurrection unto a newness of life.
37:27 -  So here's the prophet being brought down and out from his comfortable place where he has enjoyed celebrity and into the grim pit of death and seeing Israel in its true condition.
37:41 -  But I want to say that we'll not be capable of seeing Israel in the truth of her condition. We'll always want to see it rose here in a more humanly hopeful way if we're not seeing the truth of our own condition.
37:57 -  And that's painful. So 30 years in community has been nothing but even this morning out between ourselves and just reviewing even the episode that has taken place when we left to go to Galilee.
38:13 -  The Lord revealed and did something that we needed to examine that required an acknowledgement and a friend of our own kind to be brought to a real better place of unity
38:24 -  which even affects the way this world is coming forth this morning. So it's a continuing process of willingness to suffer the humiliation and the embarrassment of things that we need to understand and receive.
38:41 -  There would be death that can only be affected by the cross. So this prophet is being told, Can you spend a little more time with us?
38:49 -  He himself could not bring himself to say that they could miss. And that's exactly the point. He cannot in that condition be to Israel what he must.
38:57 -  He's got to die to the inadequacy of his own charismatic faith. And as I said before, that when he does prophesy after Israel's acknowledgement it's only by a faith that works by love and not by sentiment.
39:11 -  So that schmaltzy sentiment has got to perish, which is painful to let go because it has so much to do with our own identity. After all, others may be hard on Israel but we are more deferential.
39:23 -  We understand, we're patient, we're forbearing, we see through. It's a self-exaltation. There's something so symbiotic in the Christian relationship with Israel
39:34 -  that I've seen over the years that that's why they howl and shriek when I put my spoke this message. Their ox is being gored because God was striking at this symbiotic thing by which a subtle form of spiritual self-exaltation takes place at the expense of Israel itself
39:54 -  and yet strangely impedes God's deepest and fullest work and ironically comes back into the face of the man who's bringing the true word as being the enemy and the one who is false and needing to be corrected or altogether cast aside.
40:14 -  How great must the issue be that the Lord does not think it too extravagant to allow the establishment of the state to bring it to near success, to allow the coming of Ethiopians and Russian Jews and filling up to the tune of like six million
40:31 -  and allowing the construction of impressive towers and motorways only to know that that is going to be brought into destruction and devastation. How great is the point that he's making, how great is the openness of that issue
40:47 -  that he does not think it extravagant to bring devastation by first allowing something to even approach and come near to a seeming success and in fact wasn't that the issue with Jesus where he was at the epitome of this humanity as son of man
41:04 -  that he's marked more than any man and cruelly destroyed at the cross and in our own, what happened to us after the ten years of community, just when we were seeing daylight, just breaking through, just finding success after much struggle and difficulty,
41:21 -  that's when the Lord ended us. He broke our community down into death, required us to vacate the property where he had settled us, brought me out to at the age of 60 something to try and find a livelihood,
41:36 -  not even able to get a job as a dishwasher with two university degrees and the work of several books and worldwide ministry. It was a time of death and humiliation without explanation
41:49 -  and the course of which the Lord had me on a sabbatical silence, fourteen months of no public speaking without explanation to be ended by the first invitation to speak on this subject.
42:02 -  I only say this, the site got to say this, how sacred is the subject that it has got to be proceeded by the whole bringing into death of a prophetic community founded for this purpose and that its principal mouthpiece himself has got to be brought into yet deeper dimensions of death,
42:22 -  life threatening divorce or suicide, children dying never to return, no employment, the daily humiliation of coming back frustrated, not even a job as a dishwasher and a sabbatical silence without explanation
42:36 -  only to be broken when he first allows the first speaking on the subject of the restoration of Israel in the last days through the church. There's tremendous extravagance and the church will be joining Israel in that celebration
42:50 -  when they see the seeming success and the peace and security. However we look upon men like ourselves then, we say this is a false peace and it's going to end in devastation.
43:00 -  It will not be an opinion that they can discard, it will be a threat that they cannot allow to countenance and it may well be at that time that they will kill us and claim they're doing God a service.
43:13 -  We're moving toward this ecumenical thing even now when we went to see the celebration of the Pavilion and the spokesman who is now the number one evangelical voice for the State of Israel, I see already the lineaments of the coming ecumenical thing
43:30 -  that will celebrate the Zionist state and the success and as already looking upon men like myself as being odious and threatening and get them out of the way or verbally abuse them is only preliminary to the physical violence that might
43:48 -  necessarily come. Be careful you don't get sucked in. Eight, nine, breathe upon these slain that they may live.
44:01 -  Those that are being worked after that would not die of old age. They died violently. Breathe upon these slain.
44:10 -  So we see again a last day scenario of an apocalyptic kind of devastation, ruin and mass mayhem and murder. Isaiah 51 reads something like the cup that God requires Israel to drink
44:25 -  but then is passed down to the hand of her tormentors. Don't think that that's an accidental word. And the tormentors say to Israel lie down and we will walk over you
44:35 -  and the scripture says and they lie down. We're going to see not only defeat in this nation but humiliation which could not have been understood before the rise of militant Islamism
44:48 -  because there's something about Arab Islamic soul that is not content with mere success or victory but requires humiliation. It requires that the Jewish word of spite that the scriptures now clearly
45:08 -  describe lie down that we might walk over you. You see the tapes of conjunction between the prophetic word and events themselves to bring them into their deepest comprehension.
45:20 -  That's why it waited on the throwing of stones, what you would call it, the interfather for me to see this text in a new way. And so what is a prophet?
45:32 -  A true prophet is one who is able by the grace and gift and calling of God to interpret and to express and make known an understanding from prophetic scripture in the light of present and future events that is the grace of his call.
45:49 -  Here's the point I want to make now from this text. The flesh, the bones first and then the flesh then finally the spirit is requiring successive prophetic statements.
46:03 -  It doesn't all come in one fell swoop because it's easier to speak to bones and even to address flesh than it is to command the spirit to enter that flesh and bones and take on life because the spirit of the wind
46:19 -  is not some amorphous vacuum, it's God. So God is saying to the prophet as the very last requirement, okay you've addressed the bones, you've addressed the flesh,
46:31 -  now finish it by addressing the ruach. Speak to the spirit, command the spirit to fill those vessels and that's when the prophet will balk.
46:43 -  Where we will balk because Lord I can speak to bones and flesh but to address you and command you, no. Now you're requiring too much.
46:52 -  My spirituality will not allow me to trespass against God. After all I am a son of man. Don't require this of me.
47:03 -  And God says unless I require this there will be no respiration of Israel because the last obstacle to Israel's respiration is your vaunted spirituality, the things you will not allow because your image,
47:17 -  the way you see yourself with regard to myself is the last place for the hiding place of flesh. That's the vanity of man that if it has no carnality to reside in will find spirituality, more powerful because it's deceptive,
47:34 -  more powerful because it appears to be so deferring to God but what it is in the last analysis is the final statement of self-exaltation. I will not.
47:45 -  No, don't ask that of me. No, I will speak to bones and flesh but I pull my to command God. That is unless you command, I'm not commanding you to command me,
47:56 -  you will have failed in your prophetic requirement. So the final death is the death of our spirituality. Those things that we have taken decades to establish and to esteem and to refine and to purify
48:11 -  and we don't realize what a repository of self hides in that spiritual place. Death is required from it and will come in obedience to command. Command the spirit, command the wind, command me to come into them.
48:30 -  And then of course he does and he does and they live in such a vast multitude and God had said earlier that they shall live and you shall know that I am the Lord. There's a knowledge of being brought back from the dead through the operation of an obedient prophet
48:54 -  that gives a knowledge of God that is an ultimate knowledge without which Israel cannot bless all the families of the earth. Talmudic knowledge will not do it, academic knowledge, theological knowledge.
49:04 -  It's the knowledge of the God who has raised the dead in your own experience. Then you will know in that day that I am the Lord. You will really know it's the knowledge of the kind that blesses.
49:15 -  And there's no cheap way to obtain that knowledge except by experiencing it as being raised from the dead. And so they're raised, a vast multitude. And in verse 11, these bones are the whole house of Israel.
49:29 -  They say our bones are dried, our hope is thus cut off. Therefore prophesy, therefore waits on that acknowledgement from Israel which has yet to come historically but will come.
49:40 -  And the question is how far will God go to bring that confession from the nation? How far will God go to bring a nation to the place where it acknowledges that its hopes to that point were false, that it is without hope,
49:56 -  that it was cut off and has no hope completely? Whatever it will take, God will require it. We mustn't bark at that nor must we be offended at that as if to say where is God?
50:08 -  We had thought that he was going to restore Israel and God has reduced the nation to this abject condition where they themselves say, they must say, then the prophet prophesies the bones live and they come back from their graves.
50:23 -  Oh my people, I will bring you back to the land of Israel indicating that there's a return after this resurrection, that the present occupation of the land is not that occupation.
50:36 -  It's yet future. It waits on this resurrection. Then I will bring you back as distinguished from bringing yourself back. When I open your graves and bring you up from your graves and I will put my spirit in you,
50:48 -  you shall live and I will place you. That's an ironic, excuse my language, that means peaceful act of God as compared to Zionist violence.
51:00 -  When man does it, he exacerbates his neighbors and brings about contention and strife of the kind that is threatening Israel to the state. When God does it, it's ironic, it's peaceful, I will plant you.
51:12 -  What a beautiful metaphor. Can you picture loving hands placing something into the soil and favoring it so that it will grow and flood the earth with its fruit?
51:22 -  It is very different than the Zionist thing that has taken place till now. And yet it was necessary because what death could there be except that man had first attempted something, that God could then reduce to death.
51:34 -  So that was under God's providence, the state of Israel, but not intended to succeed, but to die as much as the Son of Man, Jesus himself before it. I will bring you back to the land and you shall know that I am the Lord.
51:53 -  When I open your graves and bring you up from your graves for my people, I will put my spirit within you, you shall live and I will place you on your own soul. Then you shall know, until then you can't know as you ought to know.
52:05 -  Then you shall know that I the Lord have spoken and have performed it, says the Lord. This is a remarkable statement because it seems to contradict all that we said. How can God say, I have spoken, I have performed it,
52:19 -  when the whole text has shown the Son of Man as the agent of Israel's restoration? This is something that should not be lost to us, that God could say at the end of all this, you don't know that I am the Lord, that I have spoken and I have performed this.
52:33 -  But Lord, I thought the Son of Man, don't you understand you've been done? If the Son of Man has performed it, I have performed it. You can't tell where the Son of Man ends and where I begin.
52:43 -  Don't you understand that he has had to dissolve as a separate entity and is so in union with me that my thought is his thought, my word is his word, my desire is his, my love is his love, or else those bones would not have been raised?
52:57 -  That is, God's intention for the Church is not that he will give us an enablement to continue as a separate entity and do for God. That was stage one in our immaturity.
53:08 -  The ultimate purpose of God is union. His Church is so one with him, you can't tell where the prophet ends and God begins. So God has a restored nation, but he has also a bride for the bridegroom,
53:22 -  having the glory of God and adorned for the bridegroom. Can you see it? The very crisis of Israel compels the Church to come to that ground of union,
53:32 -  which means the loss of its own independent identity. You try and give that up. You don't know how deep it is.
53:40 -  Yes, as much as you think you're elevated in self-sacrificing and your heart and your ministry is fully worshiped, but let the Lord pull the plug off from your ministry and see if you don't yell,
53:52 -  how much there is of your own vested self-interest in the perpetuation of what you yourself are about in God's own name. That's got to die, or there's no restoration of the nation.
54:09 -  This has ever and always been God's intention for the Church, but it takes the crisis of Israel to obtain it, or else we would choose to remain above and outside and beyond
54:20 -  and not down and into. See what I mean? This is the genius of the mystery that Paul celebrated,
54:26 -  or the depths of the wisdom both of the knowledge and wisdom of God, who has been his counselor. What is Paul celebrating in Romans 11 that his language can't even be contained?
54:36 -  The third is the great truth. For of him and through him and through him orphans, to whom be glory forever. What is he seeing?
54:43 -  He's seeing not only Israel's restoration, but the transfiguration of the Church as the eternal bride of the bridegroom, who could not have had dominion over creation except that he has a co-regent,
54:58 -  because God gave to Adam and Eve dominion over creation, which Satan ruined through their sin, but the Son of Man now fulfills the original pattern and mystery of God
55:12 -  and having dominion of creation, but it waits on a co-regent. He gave it to them and we are that fulfillment, that in that condition as the bride adorned for the bridegroom having the glory of God.
55:27 -  And it's the crisis of Israel and the obedience to which we're called in it that brings us to that condition even as it raises Israel. All the depths of the riches both of the wisdom of God, who has been his counselor.
55:41 -  Is that the picture? Let me pray about it. And then if you'd like for the near time at this position,
55:48 -  we can have questions and discuss further. So Lord, I said this is an epical word. I know it.
55:57 -  This is the Classicus Locus. This text sums up the remarkable genius of your intention for Israel through the Church. What a Church of what kind?
56:09 -  Of an ultimate kind, of a truly prophetic kind and not the pseudo thing that now today is so popular and so easily, goodly, widely accepted
56:21 -  on the basis of a little personal charisma and gift of gab or suppose the visions that one has seen. This is the true prophetic thing which raises Israel from its death
56:34 -  because it is in such union with God that his authority is its authority and its word is God's word. And its love is God's love and its faith is God's faith.
56:46 -  But we have to forfeit then the faith that we have cultivated and the measure of love and affection for Israel and all the kinds of things in which we delighted and complimented ourselves on the very obstructions
56:59 -  to the totality for which you wait in the Son of Man that is Israel's key. So Lord, bless these children as they ponder these things and let them be willing to be brought up and down and into grim things, death.
57:20 -  First, to see as you see not only the condition of Israel as it is and that Israel will continue to worsen but to see the truth of themselves, their own lives, their own ministry, their own relationships,
57:33 -  not of the church at large that the prophet can bear even that of dying. To see reality, truth of things as you see them for nothing else will follow if we are not willing for that.
57:47 -  So we bless you Lord, let nothing fall to the ground, let them ponder the statement even now that any questions come up that should follow the text that have been cited. Give them an enlarged understanding of things as you see them
58:03 -  and as you desire them to be seen and to welcome, my God, that measure of death which must be our experience before it's Israel's or there'll be no restoration for Israel. And for that we thank you for the privilege.
58:16 -  In Jesus' holy name. Amen.