Israel's Chastisement

00:00 -  It's the day of the same period of time in which Israel experiences the sorest chastisement of perhaps its entire history. This will eclipse the Exodus.
00:13 -  This will eclipse the wilderness wandering. This will eclipse the judgment of 586 B.C. and 70 A.D. and 132 A.D. of all of the devastations that have come to Israel through Babylonians and through Rome.
00:29 -  This is a modern day, last day's uprooting of all Jewry. I will sift this information throughout all nations. Who can comprehend the magnitude of this and the freedom that I have traveling the nations
00:45 -  to tell them with complete certainty, brace yourself, they're coming. Don't tell me that there are no Jews there. I don't care what the present status is.
00:54 -  I know that God says all nations, because all nations will not only be the sifting of Israel, it will be the sifting of all nations also through Israel. It will reveal the truth of the church of all nations in their response to the least
01:08 -  of these, his brethren, if they are not in effect also our brethren. So this is a remarkable last day's saga, S-A-G-A. I don't know of anything that contains such cosmic dimensions as God's last day's dealings
01:25 -  with Israel. So just to hope for the success of the present state, however humanly desirable that is, so misses the glory of God's intention for this cosmic saga throughout all nations is
01:39 -  for the purpose of all nations. They'll not again be able to return to Allah or to Hindu Gods or any of the false deities. Once they see the God of Jacob and the God of Israel displaying the truth of his nature
01:54 -  and his power, both in his judgment through expulsion and in his mercy through restoration and return, as well as establishing the full intent of David, which is his Davidic government and his rule over creation, which I think by that time mankind will be ready and grateful.
02:19 -  So just in verse 12, in order that they may possess the remnant of Eden, the 10th verse of David, statement of the kingdom of God, God's theocratic rule out of Zion, out of a restored Zion that is restored through this process of sifting and return, though it takes
02:38 -  the majority of Jews to obtain it. They will not survive this time. We learned that where it says, all the sinners of my people shall die by their sword.
02:47 -  In verse 10, who say evil shall not overtake or meet us. The tragic thing is that all the sinners of my people will constitute the majority of present day Jewry.
03:00 -  It's a remnant who return and the restored remnant constitutes the redeemed nation. And then with them, this booth is repaired and restored. God will raise up its ruins, rebuild it, as in the days of old, how far back to the time
03:18 -  of David himself, when the kingdom of David was the glory of Israel and a benevolent rule and of a Davidic dominion over the nation and even to the outlying nations characterized Israel at its glory, that will be restored.
03:38 -  In order that they may possess, in verse 12, the remnant of Eden, possess doesn't mean own or victimize or put under your thumb, it means they will come under the authority of this rule of God for a restored nation, which will not be suppressive, it will be
03:56 -  servant rule. It will be the nation now that is restored as the head of nations will be the least as servant nation to all the nations.
04:04 -  So to be priestly means to come underneath. I often, speaking to the German church, say, I wonder what German history would have been. Instead of moving in the direction of imperialistic ambition, when the eastern west was restored,
04:20 -  I was one who did not rejoice. In fact, I preferred East Germany. I loved serving there.
04:28 -  And it's interesting, no sooner was the wall down and the new benefits accrued, it was no longer the same congregation. They had become westernized virtually overnight and spoiled and lacked their gratitude when
04:44 -  servants were sent to them when they were under communist oppression. So to come under the influence of the tent of David, the theocratic rule, is not to be subdued, but to be uplifted, is to learn the benevolence of God through a priestly people.
05:03 -  For government is not bureaucracy. Government is teaching people how to live righteously by the grace of God, by those who have can come to them out of that reality of that experience, which they had learned
05:17 -  in this life. We're being fitted for millennial rule with Christ on the basis of the wisdom and experience and maturity to which we have come by receiving the ministration of God in the shaping of
05:32 -  our character and life for that time. They're not going to be victims. They're going to be blessed.
05:37 -  That's why they'll wash the feet. That's why they'll kiss the feet. That's why they'll bring back the outlying remnant on their shoulders and in their stretchers,
05:48 -  because this is blessing for the nations. That's why Paul says, if the falling away of them has been the blessing of the Gentel, what shall their return be but life of the dead?
05:57 -  This is not life. So don't misconstrue this when it says, in order that they may possess the remnant of Edom, maybe more to hold, to uplift, as a nurse does a child, is the attitude that redeemed
06:15 -  Israel will have for the Gentile nations. Edom is the biblical key word for the nations. It means literally what today would be construed as Jordan or Syria, but Edom is the biblical
06:29 -  password for all nations, the Gentile world. And all the nations who are called by my name says, the Lord who does this, and it is some doing.
06:41 -  It is the doing of such magnitude, such a complete change of character from the Israel that we know now to the Israel then, that only God could have affected it. A transfiguration as well as a restoration of a people who have been selfish, who didn't
07:00 -  want to know about their calling. Don't bother us that we're chosen. We just want to be the Hong Kong of the Middle East.
07:10 -  We just want to be a commercial nation. We just want to build our skyscrapers and have a creature comfort nation. They'll tell us about our calling.
07:20 -  They will receive it and perform it by the Lord who does this. That's where it says, the zeal of the Lord will perform this in Isaiah chapter 9. This is not man's doing.
07:34 -  This could never be man's doing. This is not Zionism. This is not what man, however well-meaning in its intentions, can perform.
07:42 -  This is God, as God has never been seen in modern times, so demonstrably acting in his own power and his own nature, both in judgment and in mercy. It's a last statement to the nations.
07:56 -  If they refuse to acknowledge the God of Jacob and the God of Israel as being God after this, the end for them is judgment. So the time is surely coming, says the Lord, in verse 13, when the one who plows shall
08:11 -  overtake the one who reaps, and the treader of grapes the one who sows the seed. The mountains shall drip sweet wine, and all the hills shall flow with it. I will restore the fortunes of my people Israel, and they shall rebuild the ruined cities and
08:26 -  inhabit them. They shall plant vineyards and drink their wine. They shall make gardens and eat their fruit.
08:32 -  I will plant them upon their land, and they shall never again be plucked up out of the land that I have given them, says the Lord your God. This is the remarkable summary in one chapter of the entire last day scenario that begins
08:47 -  with the acknowledgement of the nation as being sinful, as it will be increasingly demonstrated and is being demonstrated day by day in the conduct of the nation and acts required for its own seeming security that contradicts any presumption to be moral or ethical.
09:08 -  It will be a sinful nation, and Jeremiah says, your sins will exceed even that of your father's. So brace yourself, Israel is going to become an increasing embarrassment for Christian Zionists to defend.
09:23 -  Its conduct will become increasingly indefensible, as for example now the world court has determined that the wall that Israel is putting up is illegal and unconstitutional and violates international law and has usurped lands owned by Palestinians, has restricted their economy,
09:46 -  has brought injustice and violence, and it has to come down. What? It's cost billions to put up, and so the question is will they submit to an international
09:57 -  tribunal in which of the 15 judges, 14 agreed and one abstained, the American representative. So does Israel dare flaunt the counsel of the world on the basis of righteousness and some justification for its own defense, because the heck of it is there has been a remarkable
10:24 -  decline in suicide bombings and buses and shopping malls since that wall has gone up. It has effectively served a very significant purpose. So the issue now is righteousness, world opinion, justice as they have determined, or security.
10:40 -  And I have a sneaky feeling that Israel is going to go like this to the world. You guys can decide all you want to decide. We are going to protect our life.
10:49 -  Now what will that do as the world sees this increasingly intransigent nation? Are we on a route to the place where all nations shall come against Lucent to destroy it? That Israel will one day be as much a factor threatening world peace as Bush and his administration
11:09 -  had determined that Iraq was. In that decision, through arbitrarily and unilaterally invade another nation in the name of world security, a precedent was established that one day will make Jerusalem and Israel
11:25 -  itself its victim. Got the picture? So we're on course to something.
11:33 -  So these things must take place, but the time is surely coming. Or on that day, that concludes all this with a millennial blessedness of such a kind as the nation has never known.
11:51 -  That Israel will produce fruit for all nations, literally, physically, naturally as well as spiritually. It will become in the want for the want of another expression, the Eden of the world.
12:03 -  Now what God intended at the first, and some say that present Israel is smack dab right over the place where Eden was itself established before the fall, and that what God wanted in his paradisical location will again be established through the redeemed nation and
12:21 -  its fruitfulness will go out to all the earth. That's why Paul says, what is the return but life from the dead? And the time is surely coming.
12:30 -  Here's an encouragement for you. You're going to see horrendous things. The nation will become increasingly sinful.
12:37 -  The prophecies will be fulfilled, that their sins will exceed that of their fathers. And then will come the judgment and expulsion through all nations. But that's not the end of it.
12:49 -  That's the means by which the greater end is obtained. For one who plows will overtake the one who reaps. This is prophetic poetry, imagery of a kind that in a few words, a picture of what millennial
13:07 -  blessedness means, because blessedness means fruitfulness. Have you cried out when you pray for the blessing of God that you'd be made fruitful? That your energies and its result be multiplied?
13:21 -  That's what blessedness is, is to be made fruitful. Curse is to be stunted and contracted and arid and fruitless. You were wild branches, Paul says, and could not produce fruit, but you're grafted into
13:37 -  their tree that you might be fruit bearing. To be blessed is to be fruit bearing. And this is Israel, that they are so abundant that before the crop could be taken in from
13:48 -  for one harvest, they're already seeding the next. So that one is on the heels of the other and a continual overflow of the bounty of God. That will be a testimony, a statement to all nations that this is the chosen people of
14:01 -  God. This is the people whom God has called. This is the people who have suffered remarkable abasement and humiliation, not unlike the
14:10 -  Lord before them. They will suffer a comparable road to Calvary, which is the time of Jacob's trouble, and an Isaiah 53 experience of being marked more than any people and having no beauty that
14:22 -  any should desire them. And then because of their abasement, he will exalt them. There's this principle of God, breathing in and breathing out.
14:33 -  Breathing precedes glorification, suffering precedes glory, abasement precedes exaltation. For the Jesus who was crucified, who stands for the nation, he is the Israel of God, he is the choice son, precedes the nation in the experience that must follow.
14:52 -  Humiliation, rejection unto death, and then resurrection and ascension and a name given above all names, both in heaven and on earth. Even the Father gives to the Son a name and an exaltation that you would think that belongs
15:10 -  exclusively to the Father, but what a picture of the Godhead and the spirit of deity that the Father defers to the Son and gives him a name above every name, both in heaven and earth.
15:23 -  He'll do the same for the nation Israel. Israel will be exalted. It will no longer be the tail, it will be the head.
15:30 -  And God has chosen it as the locus of his global theocratic rule. And it will be fruitful. The mountain shall drip sweet wine and all the hills shall flow with it.
15:45 -  You can make a note of other scriptures, Jeremiah 23 from verse 3 and following is a comparable statement, both of judgment and exaltation and fruitfulness. Ezekiel 36 from verse 11 speaks of the same thing, Ezekiel 34 from verse 27 speaks of
16:10 -  the same thing. And maybe at another time we'll examine those texts, but in case we don't, you check that out yourself.
16:19 -  I will restore the fortunes of my people Israel, fallen, disgraced, shameful, the reproach of all nations, hated and despised of men, I will restore their fortunes. And they shall rebuild the ruined cities and inhabit them.
16:35 -  So here's evidently, so the redeemed of the Lord shall return to Zion, everlasting joy shall be upon the head and mourning and sighing shall flee away. In that great statement, we have both elements of something that has affected the nation
16:51 -  for mourning, sorrow and sighing, namely the destruction of the hope that the state of Israel had represented for it. That devastation is necessary so I can predict with almost complete assurance that it's not
17:09 -  the cities of antiquity that will be the rubble and ruin that need to be rebuilt and restored. Because when I debate with my brethren, they say, this is already taken care of. Present Israel is already that rebuilding.
17:20 -  I said, no, present Jerusalem, present Haifa, Tiberias, all of the modern day cities of Israel will be reduced to ruin and that the first object of God and the restoration of the nation is the rebuilding of that which was laid waste and made desolate and left
17:41 -  in ruins. It's one thing to see natural increase and what in the last analysis do we desire when it says the desert shall blossom as a rose?
17:52 -  And we say, well, look at these irrigation projects, you know, we're boasting in Israel's irrigation projects, but we've not seen what God can do. We need to be jealous for the, not just for the success of men or a state, but the glory
18:08 -  of God that blesses and brings an abundance beyond anything that men could procure through their intelligence or through their technology. Our problem is we're content with too little.
18:21 -  We fall short of the glory of God and in our secret hearts, we would prefer the success of a state on human grounds through man's prowess and ability and technology than we would desire to see what would be the everlasting glory of God, this millennial blessedness.
18:40 -  And Jesus said, you do err because you know not the scriptures nor the power of God. And that's true of us in our Christian Zionist era. We want to see a present success and we're satisfied with that measure because we have
18:57 -  not known the intent of God in the scripture nor the power of God. And I'm going to show you at the end, we'll go back. I will do, I will, I will, I will, I will, not you, I will.
19:10 -  And therefore he'll deserve the eternal praise of glory forever. Who wants to relinquish a burden in the hand for a bird in the bush? Who wants to give up a present measure of success for a greater glory?
19:24 -  And how many of us will be put to that test and that exact question? The glory that we have in Oswald Chambers required the release and the giving up of a measure of prominence to which he had already attained.
19:40 -  When you read the biography of Oswald Chambers, you learn that he went through a long night of the soul. Not when he was at the bottom groveling over the issue of salvation, he was a man already
19:51 -  saved. He was a man already used. He was receiving compliments everywhere for his spirituality, his statefulness, his ability.
19:59 -  Then God brings him into a night of the soul, a long night of death in which the good thing had to be relinquished, submitted unto death to come into the greater thing. How many of us have gone through that where there's an early flash in the pan, a certain
20:19 -  kind of success, use of the Lord even, and then for some reason a threat to it or a question of letting that go for a yet greater glory? That's Israel.
20:33 -  A certain measure of success, but that has got to die. What about Jesus and his own humanity? So impressive at the age of 12, disputing with the doctors of the law and astonishing
20:47 -  them. In his own humanity, he cut such a figure, such a swath, were so impressive men would have elevated him to kingship then, but that perfected humanity.
20:58 -  However impressive had to come into death that he would be raised unto a newness of life and that would be shut down from the throne of heaven and we also might live in that newness.
21:12 -  How should we say it? He takes away the first to give the second. He removes the lesser thing to give the greater and the irony is that he himself has given
21:24 -  the lesser thing and the most difficult thing for people to relinquish is what God has at the first given. Well, God called me.
21:34 -  God gave me this ministry. Yeah, but he didn't give it to you to keep and to prosper, to become famous by, he gave it to you to relinquish and to die to.
21:41 -  And until you realize that, you'll not come in to the greater glory of his intention. You're holding back and restraining and possessing the measure that you now have because God has given it.
21:55 -  But what has he given it for? Not to be retained, but to be yielded, to be relinquished even unto death and out of the resurrection of that God given thing comes the greater glory.
22:08 -  He's not asking you to die to the natural thing, but to the thing even given of himself. Israel is not an accident. The state of Israel is not some historical aberration that can't be explained.
22:20 -  God himself is itself. It exists by his grace, by his providence, but it does not exist to be retained as being the fulfillment of what is described here.
22:31 -  That measure has got to be submitted to death in order to obtain this measure and because we have not understood this principle in our own lives and been willing for it in our own lives, we cannot foresee it for Israel or desire it for Israel.
22:47 -  And that's why the Christian Zionist mentality wants Israel to succeed presently on the basis of its own humanity as it wants to succeed itself presently on the basis of its own religiosity. And so you'll have a good church and a charismatic show and programs.
23:05 -  Is that the glory? That has got to be submitted to death in order to come into that transfigured church that is a bride for the bridegroom, but we ourselves are unwilling to let go.
23:21 -  Israel will have no choice in the matter. It must be yielded to this process of God, but we have a choice. And in fact, if we don't let go before them, if we don't submit to a death waiting for us,
23:34 -  we shall not be to them what we must. We cannot be to them, the salvific agents of God or the prophetic entity that speaks to those bones that they may live, except that we ourselves have come into the place
23:48 -  of resurrection and into that greater life. So the issue is not Israel, the issue is the church. Is it willing to die?
23:57 -  Is it willing to bite the bullet? Is it willing to see its own coveted thing yielded, submitted, relinquished, let go, and to death?
24:07 -  And that's why the one movement always opposes the one that follows. So that the Pentecostals who had to be opposed by the denominations that said that the Holy Spirit has passed, there's no such thing as today's Baptist, Spiritist, and the Christ,
24:21 -  and they had to fight against that opposition, they themselves now fight against the prophetic and say that there's no such thing now as prophets and apostles. The previous order always contends against the future because it wants to hold and possess
24:36 -  and retain that which is given, but given not to remain but to be yielded and to be relinquished. So how many women have I said, impressive women, more impressive than their husbands,
24:49 -  who are gifted and able? I said, has God gifted you in order to supersede your husband? Or is he waiting for you to read?
24:58 -  Has he given you the gift and the ability not to retain and to exploit but to relinquish? When you'll give it up unto death, you might see a resurrection come forth in your husband who has never acted in fullness in God and has allowed you to take the lead because he
25:18 -  prefers to sit back and watch the football games and is only happy that he's taken this church initiative, but he's the head. And when you'll yield up what God has given you in giftedness and ability, you might find
25:32 -  it remarkably come forth in him in a resurrection form. And because you have died to that call and giftedness, you will find a complete satisfaction and identification with him for his success is your success.
25:46 -  You're no longer rivaling and contending entities who are sharing the same house for convenience. There's one life and he's the head of it and you're rightly submitted and therefore what
25:58 -  you're seeing now is a greater expression than you have ever seen had you continued to exercise your own giftedness in your ministry. It's the same thing.
26:11 -  To die is to relinquish, is to yield up. Ben Israel died, if you don't know that. We're on the resurrection side here because 15 or so years ago, God brought this entire
26:22 -  thing into death, including these grounds. It was entirely given up. We lost everything.
26:29 -  We lost our IRS, federal recognition as a nonprofit religious organization. We were required to abandon the property. It languished.
26:40 -  It was open to the vandals, to the elements for three years and God didn't say for how long it must be submitted unto death. But it was clear that somehow without explanation, isn't that dying?
26:53 -  It's not so much dying if God tells you why, but when you have to bear something without him explaining it and bear it by faith, trusting that he does all things well, he's perfect in all his ways and what we're suffering now though is inexplicable and seems to us
27:10 -  unnecessary, will end up redemptively with the reaper on the heels of the harvester and hills dripping with wine, if you'll believe. Why should you believe?
27:23 -  Because the same God who's going to restore Israel out of death will restore you. The same mystery, the same God, the same glory. So it was clear we had to vacate.
27:38 -  I think I've mentioned many times that the one elder who would not receive my prophetic interpretation of God calling everything into death, he couldn't see it. I had already left.
27:50 -  My children were in one place, he was in another. I'm out. And he had moved into my house because he always wanted to live in a rustic environment
27:59 -  and now he had it. And the small circle of souls that remained, that he continued to be an elder, I would not heed that I'm saying God is calling the entire banditry thing into death.
28:10 -  I can't say why. And you know when that call came? It would have been easier to have responded if it had come earlier because then we could
28:18 -  see that death was necessary. We're walking into walls, we're cumbersome, we're difficult, the relationships are strained, we're suffering poverty.
28:27 -  Yes, yes, bring this into death by all means. When does he call us to death? When we come out of that.
28:33 -  When we see light at the other end of the tunnel. When we're beginning to live harmoniously. There's something beginning to flow.
28:38 -  We're having invitations overseas. Books are being published and we're beginning to get it together. Then he calls us to death.
28:47 -  That's why it's more difficult to relinquish and let go when something has become an object of our identification and our hope but falls short of its glory. Got the picture?
28:59 -  And so I tried to persuade this brother who said he was up in his room from my prophetic ministry. Why then is he not receiving my prophetic word?
29:08 -  Because now it's goading and goring his bull. It was okay when I speak to others who got the sword of the Lord but now to speak it to his self-interest all of a sudden I'm no longer a prophet.
29:21 -  And so he refused to budge. We had one last meeting in another city south of here. I pleaded again.
29:28 -  He wouldn't hear of it. I said, okay, look, that's it. Went to bed.
29:32 -  The next morning was breakfast and departure. A man comes to the breakfast table white as a sheet. I look at him.
29:38 -  I say, what happened to you? These are his exact words. Before I went to sleep, I prayed.
29:45 -  I said, Lord, if I'm mistaken, please show me. Because he was a man that was really ever mistaken. He was a man of principle.
29:53 -  And the Lord said to me, if you don't leave, I'll kill you. He left. Listen, you dear saints.
30:01 -  I don't know what it is that we're about in full but this much I know that we're about something of such significance in God's sight that he did not think it elaborate to take a man's life if he refused to allow Ben-Israel to come into death.
30:15 -  It had to come into a complete death. The marriage had to come into complete death. Anger is not just threatening divorce.
30:23 -  She's threatening suicide. My kids are gone. The ministry is gone.
30:27 -  The community is gone. And I'm looking for employment as a 60-year-old man with a couple of university degrees and can't even get a job as a dishwasher.
30:38 -  You know what it feels like to come back every day unemployed and no visible income? It's not just the issue of income. It's the issue of dignity.
30:47 -  It's the issue of self-esteem. You're absolutely worthless. You're obsolete cats.
30:52 -  There's no place for you in the world that you have anything that the world desires that you can perform. Day after day you eat that death and that disappointment and heartache without explanation.
31:04 -  And when you got to come back onto the property in the wintertime and the roads are not plowed out and something had to be found and I came in with my car and I went as far as I could, stopped, opened the door, the dog went out of the car and came back with his tail between
31:18 -  his legs. The death was so rampant, so manifest. And you know what it is to come to a community that has 55 souls?
31:26 -  Children talk, sound and come to a place of complete silence and the doors are creaking and you taste the death, you eat the death until the Lord himself will bring the restoration in his own time.
31:45 -  And it came first with myself and a couple, a Mexican-American couple, we lived in my house and we were up every morning 5 a.m. bellowing and prevailing before God for the restoration of Ben Israel.
31:58 -  Inger said she would never come back. And then little by little in a year and a half of prevail the Lord began to bring this one back, that one or someone new and began again the formation of a renewed Ben Israel
32:12 -  restored for a greater glory than we had ever known previously. And some of you have heard the testimony of how it was so, the death was so desolate that when I was by myself back in that house, I had a brother paint and spray it yellow.
32:31 -  We bought the paint that came on. It was returned or mixed with false color. It was the most garish yellow you have ever seen.
32:40 -  And I prayed, I had the guy spray the house because I couldn't stand the grayness of death. And you know what?
32:48 -  It multiplied the death. That attempt humanly to take the edge off and to compensate with a little color made it yet more haunting, made it yet more grotesque, yet more deathly until the Lord sent me to
33:03 -  a seminary which was a death, Lutheran seminary, began to open the mystery of Israel out of a season of death and then to give an invitation after 14 months of no speaking, I was on a silence, a what do you call it?
33:19 -  A sabbatical. A sabbatical of silence without explanation. If I visited a fellowship, I could do no more than give name, rank and serial number, a
33:27 -  greeting. No, I can't hear a word. Why?
33:31 -  Well, the Lord is forbidding me to speak. I can't explain. I just know I'm not allowed to speak.
33:36 -  And then the invitation from California. Art, you don't know me, I'm Pastor So-and-so. We're praying here in Sacramento that God wants you to speak to us in a seminar on Israel
33:47 -  the Church in the last days. When I heard that, I knew that the silence was over and that's how it began. So are you willing, dear Saints, to enter that ground at the time when you're tasting
34:04 -  success and within reach of an established ministry perhaps or a successful this or that or something that God had given is now really beginning to flower and at that moment God requires it to relinquish, to yield it up as Israel was required to do in order that
34:24 -  the hills should flow with wine, the mountains shall drip sweet wine and all the hills shall flow with it and I will restore the fortunes of my people Israel. When God restores the fortunes, it's not just a restoration of Ben Israel's back on the
34:41 -  land now and his ministry has been restored. When I restore the fortunes, it's in new dimensions of depth, of significance and of use that you have hardly ever touched in the previous time, however much you were allowed to flower.
34:59 -  When I will restore Israel's fortunes, it will be a transfigured nation and they shall rebuild the ruined cities and inhabit them and that's what we're in the process of doing even here.
35:11 -  One trailer at least was removed completely because three years of influx of weather and moisture had just about destroyed it. Many things were stolen from us in those days by vandals because the property was just left
35:25 -  out in the open for both nature and for men. They shall plant vineyards and drink their wine and they shall make gardens and eat their fruit.
35:36 -  You will not understand the significance of that unless you go back to Deuteronomy 28 and 32 or Leviticus 26 and see that the Deuteronomic curse is exactly the reverse of this. You'll plant vineyards but you'll not drink wine from it.
35:54 -  You'll grow gardens but you'll not eat its fruit. You'll raise sons and daughters but others will take them. You'll not see your grandchildren.
36:03 -  Your daughters will be taken by other men. Curse is the reverse of blessing and here now blessing is the reverse of curse. So unless you understand the Deuteronomic context of this restoration, you've missed the
36:19 -  significance. This is exactly the opposite of curse. You shall plant vineyards and this time now you'll drink its wine and it'll not be for
36:30 -  others. You'll not plant and others will receive the benefit. You'll make gardens and you'll eat the fruit, not your conqueror who leaves you to suffer
36:39 -  famine and expulsion. I will plant them upon their land and they shall never again be plucked up out of land that I have given them, says the Lord your God.
36:50 -  So here's a final capstone statement. When you examine the other scriptures that I've given that relate to this text and also speak of restoration, there'll be other statements like you'll not again fear.
37:02 -  You'll not again know terror. It's not mentioned here but it's mentioned in other places. So if this is the evidence of something yet future, this is a restoration that Israel
37:12 -  has never known because they have never again been subject to such a last days dealing of expulsion by which it says in Jeremiah 16, you'll not again speak of me or remember me as the God who has brought you out of Egypt.
37:27 -  What are you saying? What? What?
37:30 -  That's our distinctive experience. That's how Israel was born out of removal and exile. We won't speak of you in a way.
37:39 -  No. Henceforth you remember me as the God who has brought you forth out of every land wherein I have cast you.
37:50 -  So this is an exodus not just from Egypt but all the nations into which Israel shall be cast in the last days and returned through a process of sifting through the nations by which as the surviving remnant is exposed to the mercies of God that come to them through
38:10 -  the believers of those nations even simple primitive believers and the Sierra Madre Mountains Indians anticipate the coming of these Jews and will provide for them. Africans in Kenya and Nairobi have anticipated they have received the word they will be prepared
38:30 -  and not at all be astonished when the bottom flows out and South African Jews are compelled to flee with their back to the sea through Zambia, Zimbabwe and up through this spine of Africa, through Kenya, through Uganda and all those nations and find it upon the poorest
38:46 -  of the poor and the lowest of the low a mercy that if people were willing to share the very sustenance of their life to aid and to implement in the restoration of the lost sheep of the house of Israel that they might return to Zion with everlasting joy upon their heads
39:01 -  and mourning and sorry and fleeing away. You've got to catch the grandeur of God's design by which you'll be glorified forever and that Israel need not fear that they will again be plucked up and removed.
39:17 -  Now just one last thing before we go. To think that men could accomplish anything like this through Zionism, through any exertion of their own will, their own ability, their own promise is so absurd in the light of
39:33 -  this glory that I want to direct your attention to the reiteration of the two words I will. Verse 8, I will destroy it from the face of the earth. I will judge except that I will not utterly destroy the house.
39:48 -  For lo, I will command in verse 9 and shake all the houses, all the houses of Israel among all nations. On that day I will raise up in verse 11 the tent of David that has fallen.
40:05 -  Verse 14, I will restore the fortunes of my people. Verse 15, I will plant them upon their land and they should never again be plucked up out of land I have or I will give them.
40:18 -  I will, I will, I will, I will, I will. I didn't count it, but I would be delighted if it turns out to be seven I wills. I'll even go for eight.
40:29 -  Eight is the number of resurrection, but this is the point we must not miss. Present Israel is the statement of man under the benevolence and providence of God, but largely the expression of man's own prowess and ability.
40:45 -  The end thereof is expulsion, exile, suffering, death. God's restoration and making of that land the millennial blessedness and a fruit for all nations is the issue of I will.
41:00 -  I will, I will, I will, I will. For us as believers, that the same God who I will for Israel will I will for us. Israel's destiny is our encouragement because surely even as today I was experiencing this
41:19 -  encouragement because the enemy had allowed me for a moment to forget the I wills of God. And allowed me to fasten my eyes on visible signs of things that would encourage my discouragement instead of turning my eyes up to the hills from whence cometh my help.
41:40 -  I was viewing the wrong thing and the enemy had opportunity by that to set in a discouragement. But when your eyes are set upon the invisible God whose testimony is I will, I will, I will. So precious God, our faith is encouraged by your word.
42:00 -  Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. Lord, we believe in this and we thank you that you have a much greater intention than Israel has for itself. You have a much greater intention for the church than the church has for itself.
42:15 -  You have a much greater intention for us than we have for ourselves. And if we have held back and what's right, kept contained, possessed and afraid to let go and to relinquish, then we might enter the greater glory through the giving up of what you yourself have given.
42:35 -  Forgive us. We bless you, Lord, for what you reveal here in your dealings with Israel is what you are as God. Thank you for so great a scenario. Put it deep, my God, within our hearts, for we are called not only to acknowledge this, to observe it,
42:49 -  but to be participants in its very fulfillment in the measure that we have in the knowledge of you in Christ Jesus, the Son of David, in whose name we pray. Amen.