Jacob Becomes Israel 2 of 3

00:00 -  But the greatest factor in the last analysis is the grit and the determination what a man is in the depths of himself. I don't have a word for it. Can anybody help me? An athlete would know this. Endurance is the kind of thing, I read to the class the other day the statement of Muhammad Ali training for one of his final fights in the late 1970s
00:29 -  of an age where he was in excruciating pain in his training program. He said, and yet I must force my body. It's killing me. I'm tasting death. I'm tasting my blood. But I cannot consider losing. I cannot live with defeat. Whatever it takes, I must win even if this training is stretching me to the utmost. In the word what made Ali great and every great athlete is that indefinable thing that I'm trying to hint at in the word grit. It's that determination, it's that will, it's that what a man is in himself.
01:13 -  And I've played ping pong with a number of good players over the years. One of the highlights of my numbers on the troopship to Germany was the coming back. I was losing 19 to 12. And the guy was of Italian descent. And I said we Jews have been your victims historically. Rome destroyed Jerusalem. But I'm going to call for something ancestral to win. And I beat him 21 to 19.
01:50 -  On the basis, and I think the man has superior skills, but I had a greater determination and grit not to lose. So wrestling, there's something of wrestling where deep really meets deep. Jacob wrestled with the man. It's God in his deeps wrestling with the man in his deeps. And something has got to come out of that, of a transcendent kind that will affect all the future.
02:22 -  I think this is why some of the last words that Jesus has to say to the church, in fact every church in Revelation says that we must obey God. That's probably what the word Israel itself means as we come. How many of us have wrestled with the scriptures? We need to learn the wrestling ways of investing ourself in something to the uttermost.
02:52 -  When your mind is clouding up or other distractions of a legitimate kind have a claim on you, you persist. You're ruthless in your determination against yourself to see something through to the end. Hope who endures to the end will be saved.
03:15 -  Good. Praise the Lord. Hey, this shows a remarkable corroboration with the New Testament in the last few verses that have been quoted. Why should it not? One God is one book.
03:29 -  So Jacob was left alone and the man wrestled with him until the breaking of day. Now when he saw that he did not prevail against him, he touched the socket of his hip and the socket of Jacob's hip was out of joint as he wrestled with him. And he said, you have to follow these pronouns.
03:50 -  At one time he is referring to God and another time he is referring to Jacob. So when we read in verse 26, he said, let me go for the day breaks, it's God speaking. But he said, Jacob, I will not let you go unless you listen.
04:07 -  You don't have to say about Jacob, I love him. You don't have to say about Jacob, God loves him. You know why? Because whatever he is, is a schemer, a supplanter, a wheeler dealer, cutting in his ways, I will not let you go except you listen.
04:26 -  This thing, what this touches, what this expresses is so dear in God's sight. This determination, this jealousy is of the kind that takes the kingdom. The kingdom of God suffers violence and the violence taken by force is not an invitation to physical violence, but to a violence of will, of determination and of spirit.
04:54 -  This is why Watchman Nee says, and I read to the class at the end of this book, Love Not the World, that it's one thing to evangelize, but when it comes to confronting the principalities and the powers of the air, something is required of yet another kind. Of an utterness toward God spiritually, an utterness where the last thing is pulled out.
05:19 -  Why are we struggling for words? Because we don't have a vocabulary for this. Because it's outside of our experience, because nothing in the world incites or encourages this kind of intensity of determination and will, but God himself. Whatever can be said about Jacob that is negative, this one thing, this one redeeming thing, maybe this was it, this was the pivot.
05:47 -  Maybe if he had given up, or let go, or he felt himself mastered, or how can I win in a situation like this? This man is overpowering me. Jacob would not have become Israel, but when he said, I will not let you go, except that you bless me. What if we came to this school with such an attitude as that?
06:09 -  Lord, I'm not going to leave until I have received the uttermost from you in these days. It's beyond the issue of who the teachers are. I want to draw this out of your heart. Or these men in Illinois. I'm not quitting. I don't care how disappointed I am, how angry this letter has made me be, how snubbed I feel, how racially put down, whatever it is.
06:33 -  I'm sticking this through. I'm going to face this. I will not let this go until it becomes a blessing. I will not. There's something there that is at the heart of what God is after, and maybe at the heart of what distinguishes Israel. Should not that be that death will occur?
06:58 -  That death will occur. A lot of us say a prayer, but is it something that we're trying to get a hold of God, or we're asking God to get a hold of us? You know, I think it's prayers that go beyond words. In groanings that cannot be uttered is the prayer of the kind we're talking about. Because words, we've said all that can be said, but we've not yet fully come to the issue and seeing it through.
07:30 -  There's something that lies too deep for words, and that needs to be transacted out of spirit in groanings that cannot be uttered, that it even comes to us by the Spirit of God when we have come to the ground of God, beyond petition, beyond words, beyond thoughts, beyond what we can ask ourselves. Most of us stop short. The great prayers are not prayed because we don't go through, we don't endure to the end.
07:58 -  The same thing is true of the church. We quit too soon. Not only our prayer, but our relationships. Going gets tough. We're looking for another greener pasture, but they dumped the pasture to get something that will be less demanding. But this Spirit, I will not let you go.
08:19 -  What can it be experienced unless you're in the cellar, if it's not midnight? I don't know that unless that creates the situation, likewise, that you can really experience it. You can't just stay one day here, everything's going great.
08:36 -  There's no occasion to experience it. Crisis makes it possible. Crisis is a blessing. It's painful, it's excruciating, it's mind-boggling, it's full of fear and trembling.
08:52 -  But would we have come to this place of the deeps, even the deeps of ourselves that we have not even known and recognized as being there, except that crisis that brought us to it? So the question for us is, would we welcome a crisis that brings us to such a place?
09:11 -  What are we transacting with that? What are we saying to him? To what degree, I want to get biographical. Moish Rosen predicted, you know Moish Rosen is the head of Jesus, I was recruited out of high school teaching by Moish Rosen.
09:28 -  At that time, I was the head of recruiting and training for the Americans for admissions to the Jews of the Baptist organization. He brought me out of teaching profession. I was the first Pentecostal ever to be brought into a Baptist organization.
09:42 -  And over the course of that training period, he said one time publicly, he said, by the time you're 50, you'll be the Jewish big man. It's never happened. Instead, I found myself out in the boondocks in No-Wizville, Minnesota, because somewhere along the line,
09:59 -  I think I remember having prayed, Lord, whatever it takes, please reserve me for your true final last day's work. So I'm asking, what are we transacting with God and what are we asking? Because to say whatever it takes is to say, whatever crisis is required, I invite you to bring it.
10:27 -  Maybe we're not coming to that crisis over which threshold we would have been moved from Jacob to Israel is because we have not welcomed crisis and let the Lord know that we're willing for the crisis alone that we bring it. Maybe we also have not come into this kind of work that can bring that prayer relationship that can take us to that.
10:54 -  Good. Where'd you set that? Because that's probably the object of what this prophetic school is about, is to bring the crisis of the word.
11:04 -  The whole school is a crisis because we don't even know how we're proceeding day by day. Now we had a brother leave yesterday who left in disappointment because the school was not what he had hoped for. What he thought it was going to be was some mentoring, some bringing him into his ministerial call,
11:26 -  that he's been told that he has a prophetic call on his life and he thought the school would be the instrument by which that prophetic call would be realized. Instead we went into this subject and that subject and it was not specifically addressed to ministerial fulfillment. And we Americans like to be ministerially fulfilled.
11:48 -  We are ambitious for the fulfillment of our ministries and not as attentive to the character of life. That has to be the foundation for that which is prophetic and apostolic and true. And so he left yesterday and missed today what might have been a word that would have revealed the condition of his mind and heart and his ambition
12:14 -  and brought him to a crisis by which he might have sent all things over, including his ambition to be a prophet. And by that self-doing would have been the very ground for the obtainment of that because Jacob wanted the spiritual things of God. That's why he cheated his brother. It would have been given to him because Jacob was from the beginning the choice of God.
12:43 -  Jacob have I loved, but Israel have I hated. And what is the, in a nutshell, what can we say of the history of the nation Israel? A seeking by its own effort and its own striving to obtain what God himself would have given had it let go and let God be God, including the state of Israel itself.
13:09 -  Instead of a Zionist presumption and by funds and violence and cunning and all these mechanisms to obtain, what have they got? Threat, the possibility of collapse, intifada, stone throwing, a nation within the nation that is on to the teeth and ready to do them in, within their own boundaries and circled by hostile arms with missile and germ warfare capability and poison gas.
13:38 -  That's what you get when you seek to do it for yourself. So the whole struggle of God with Jacob has been to let Jacob let go, relinquish your grasp on the heel and let God give you what you would have obtained had you not spoken. It has not two things. You should know it has not happened on that type of a crisis in Israel.
14:02 -  Either they totally gave up and were taken back into captivity or they repented and left God. Well, hopeful repentance follows. So remember the dance shared the other night. You who are far off and you free myself from it again have a good night into the commonwealth of Israel.
14:31 -  Not just some mythical thing, but an actual substantial thing. We're talking about us, when we talk about Israel, we're talking about ourselves. It's the whole of Israel that God is wanting to bring forth.
14:44 -  So we're not just examining something that pertains to them. You're examining something that pertains to us. This is a crisis being brought by the word.
14:53 -  And if I can say this freely, and I believe I can, Reg, for no one is the crisis greater than the black believer. Because everything in history and in society presses upon them to succeed on the basis of their own ability. After being long submerged and held down, everything that is human, every poor person cries out for recognition and fulfillment by others, particularly by the oppressor, that I can do with too.
15:27 -  And for God to say for you to relinquish and for you to let go and to let God and take the lower place until God himself will give. Talk about crisis. I think that there's a word that says, that I afford the ecstasy of Jesus.
15:48 -  That pride and that self-remind and that talent and that spirit that relates to all of us in the Father. That, I mean, until you become Israel, I hate all this that you rely on. Until you leave everything, withhold nothing, I will, I hate, I afford that.
16:10 -  Well, we all know how many trips we made to the altar on these altar calls. And somehow Jacob stubbornly remains alive. So may the Lord bring us, maybe all of that was preparation for a time, a moment that would come when the deepest realization would strike our heart.
16:32 -  And that we would let go of that last thing. So deep you can't even identify it. But you'll not know it until there's a cry.
16:42 -  Jacob wept. I need to say that there was a message given at our church about Jacob. And it was given completely different.
16:55 -  It was given celebrating Jacob's ability to, it was exactly the opposite. Celebrating the fact that he grabbed the whole thing. And more the emphasis on one who grabbed the whole thing as opposed to the supplanting aspect.
17:15 -  That was completely pushed aside for this other side to be emphasized. It may well be that not the least of the witness to the Jewish people in the last days is the revelation of what Israel means as they will behold it in the black believer. There was we Jews who have, we have a common history of being oppressed and held down and so on.
17:45 -  There's always been a arc of sympathy and identification. When we see in the black believer a freedom from the necessity to succeed or to be recognized succeeding and of people who can relinquish and even relinquish their own life for the Jew. There's a black brother in Washington who says I believe in that scripture in Isaiah I've given many men for you.
18:13 -  I've given the life of many for you. And then it says Ethiopia and Kush. And somehow there will be a requirement from the black believer to the point of the actual giving of their lives for the Jews in the last days.
18:28 -  That will be such a demonstration to them of what it means to be Israel. Life laid down and the life that is limp, that is permanently crippled, that refuses to succeed on the basis of its own strength. Even as I say that, when I think of black athletes who are supreme in virtually every category, precisely on the basis of their supreme strength and ability,
19:02 -  to allow yourself to make halt there, to be crippled in the orb of the hip, the socket, the nexus where your power is and your virility. Because that's the same part of the body that contains your sexual organs, your manhood, your masculinity, your sexuality. And I'm told that it's in the socket of the hip that the blood cells are themselves produced.
19:34 -  So this was not the man who wrestled with Jacob just aimlessly touching something he could reach. He went with great accuracy to the nexus, any exus, of what makes Jacob Jacob. And there he crippled him.
19:52 -  And he crippled him permanently. Jacob that does not limp is not Israel. If we're still striding without a limp and carrying the day and coming through on our own basis, we're yet Jacob and not yet Israel.
20:12 -  Limping is halting. Limping is a continual fixed in permanent reminder that your strength is not in yourself, that you're weak and disabled. And said that God be your provision, you shall not prosper, you shall not succeed in the thing in which you are about. And the thing which you are about is an ultimate thing.
20:36 -  God doesn't give to Israel small things. He gives ultimate things. To be his statement in the earth and to the nations in the last days and to bring in the people of Jacob that they might become the Israel of God also. He gives us an ultimate thing beyond any ability in ourselves to perform it.
20:58 -  And all the more even reduces us by crippling us to guarantee that it will not be performed on the basis of our belief. And you want that voluntarily? You want what came to Jacob inadvertently you're welcoming intentionally? That's the truth.
21:28 -  So 26, let me go for the day breaks. This has all got to be accomplished that night. Nothing left over. When the dawn comes, something new has got to be established or it will not come again.
21:48 -  But he said, I will not let you go unless you bless me. Jacob understands that the word blessing is not a cliche. It's something that maybe we don't understand.
21:59 -  Bless you, brother. I bless you, blessing you. I bless, bless, bless, bless. I don't know of another word that has been so cheap and so robbed of its meaning than the word bless. You know what I would do? I would call a moratorium.
22:11 -  It would be forbidden for the next year to use the word bless until it can come again into the focus and meaning and intention of God who gave it. The word bless is a divine word that describes a divine phenomenon and we need to esteem what it means to bless and to be blessed. A lot of what we're suffering is to want a blessing that would come to us by those who know the word and bestow it by faith upon us in their prayer.
22:46 -  Now when I say bless you, brother, it's not a little cut on the back making nice. It's not placating. It's conferring. It's in doing. It's establishing. You can imagine that we have that authority and that we fall short of it because we've allowed the word to fall into such a low place of insignificance because we've not wrestled to keep its meaning and its value.
23:12 -  When Jacob said, I will not let you go except you bless me, God knew that Jacob knew what he was saying. He wasn't asking for a little cut on the back. He was asking for the deepest conferring of something that must come from God that can't even be defined or identified but changes everything. It's being imbued with something from God that affects everything that you are in pain.
23:43 -  I will not let you go except you bless me with that blessing. God waits to be constrained. Remember the two disciples on the road to Emmaus? They were disappointed, again disappointed. We thought it had been he who would have restored the word as well. Jesus walking with them in the way and his face was hidden from them. They didn't recognize him.
24:05 -  And they came to their house and he made as if he was going to go on, but they constrained him to come in. And when he came in and broke bread in their eyes they were open. We're not constraining God, guys. Every prophetical school is different. Every day of it is different, every session of it.
24:29 -  Everything depends on the nip of that school, the coming of the personalities, what God has assembled and to what degree we are constraining God and saying in our spirit, we will not let you go except you bless us. Lord, I'm only here from Monday to Friday, but I want to go back to Indiana differently than the man that came. I'm asking you to pull out the stuffs. I know it's going to cost because to whom much is given, much is required.
24:59 -  But I don't want to just be faintly blessed and say, those were lovely days. I really enjoyed that. I learned something. I understand. I want something more, an impartation of God that will enable me to function as Israel and not as Jacob drawn from himself. And I'll not let you go except you bless us. This is the kind of spirit that characterized the church of olden times that had their all night prayer times, prayer sessions.
25:29 -  They wouldn't let go until the dawn, until the day came, through the night, wrestling with God. That was my experience in Uganda, in Africa, preaching at four o'clock in the morning for a second or third time as we had an all night session with the saints. The next morning I could hit the sack and rest, but they went to work up all night and I'm not satisfied with a 30, 40 minute sermon.
26:00 -  More, more. Tell us more. Give us more. More. And you preach two, three, four, five times through the night with prayers, agonizes, cries out to God. The spirit's not to be forgotten.
26:14 -  It's been said by certain commentators, I don't know if you agree, but 90 is the figure of the great tribulation. And it's interesting that the wrestling with God is all taking place at night. And as I look at the text, I'm not sure if you would agree, but I see kind of like a prophetic word because the church itself will wrestle in the night with God,
26:38 -  representing the tribulation to come, not only to Israel, but also to the church, but also for us as believers that our wrestling must come during the tribulation itself. And as the day breaks, that's when we seek the blessing of God. I see this like a prophetic thing that's coming up out of the scripture. Vince?
26:57 -  I just want to suggest that it's not something that Jacob would have come to out of his own purpose of heart, however noble at times that might have been. Although God planted and prepared something in Jacob, that this particular process was perfectly suited and coordinated to produce, Jacob was in, this was not something that he had espied of the great blessing of God. He was in a struggle for life and death.
27:22 -  The blessing or the not blessing of the angel meant whether or not he would survive the following day. And so it's like when the disciples said to him, shall we go? He will only have the words of life. This is not the statement of strength or human resolve or some nobility. This is the statement of utter desperation that God himself has orchestrated.
27:40 -  And to bring this man to the end of everything that is on the line. So I like what his brother said, you know, so often we celebrate Jacob's noble resolve. And yet that was a noble resolve that never came without being an issue of life and death.
27:54 -  Jacob knew something of the promise in his glorious beginnings with God. But to really come to the utterance that is required to inherit the promise, only God could bring him to that place. He would never have chosen. And I don't want to over-reiterate, but it's like in Peter.
28:10 -  Peter, when you were young, you girded yourself. When you were old, another will take you for you or not. This whole transaction with God is something that Jacob himself would not. But God has pointed it. In fact, Paul said in Romans 11, this whole thing is determined by God before the world began,
28:28 -  because Jacob and Esau and Jacob had done any good or evil. So this is something completely orchestrated by God to extract something from Jacob that was planted there by God, that would never have been brought to fruition upon the intervention of God.
28:49 -  So how far would God go to take Jacob and make him in his room? Very far. Even to the threat of extinction. Because what waited him when the dawn broke was Esau and his company of 400 men.
29:05 -  It was disaster ahead. But you're right, he's not asking for a little patsy blessing. He's asking for life and death blessing that will enable him to face the crisis.
29:17 -  And when he receives that blessing, he faces the crisis in an entirely new way. Let's look at that. But he finally does meet Esau in chapter 33. Now, after that night, Jacob lifted his eyes and looked, and there Esau was coming.
29:42 -  What a frightful sight that must have been. And with him were 400 men. So he divided the children among Leah, Rachel, and the two maidservants.
29:52 -  And he put the maidservants and the children in front, Leah and her children behind, and Rachel and Joseph last. Rachel and Joseph were the dearest to him, and he puts them in the most protected place. Then he crossed over before them and bound himself to the ground seven times until he came near to his brother.
30:17 -  Well, unless we can visualize this. This would take some mighty depiction on a film on the screen. How formidable Esau and the 400 men.
30:30 -  The terrifying fright that they represented. The prospect of complete annihilation, which is exactly what world Jewry has gone to face in the time of Jacob's trouble. Not getting out of a little scrape, but the prospect of total annihilation.
30:45 -  That's what faced Jacob. By men, by a man who has had time to nurture, nurse, and cultivate his vengeance. And then he bound himself seven times.
31:02 -  What's the word for that? Obeisance. There's a way in which you can do that that is calculated to please men and to ease them of their vengeance.
31:17 -  But there's a way in which you can do that that is honest and that really expresses a respect and an honor. In fact, it was done seven times. Is there anything insignificant in Scripture?
31:32 -  Why didn't they do it two or three times? Isn't that enough? I think I've got a whole lifetime of over 70 years.
31:38 -  I don't know that I've ever bound before a man once. Seven times. It's almost like a statement of repentance.
31:46 -  It's an inarticulated statement of body language that is saying to Esau, I'm aware of what I did to you and I took advantage of you and I'm acknowledging my fault and my sin against you. And something like that, an acknowledgement of sin, of transgression against another,
32:11 -  defuses the anger and the resentment that would otherwise have expressed itself as violence. And maybe this is what we're going to have to do to the Arab people. We're going to have to bow before them seven times.
32:25 -  We proud Jews who have every kind of rationalization of why it is that we have to do this or that or use violence or imprisonment to bow before them and acknowledge. We have really done your entry. We have really used our wits and our power and our strength before you.
32:47 -  I'm just speculating. It doesn't say anything like that. But I sense in my spirit this bowing seven times was not some genuflection.
32:56 -  It was not a mindless obeisance that a man makes in order to get away with something. But something happened to Jacob in the night. He's no longer Jacob.
33:07 -  He's now Israel. And he's seeing differently. He's understanding.
33:12 -  He's perceiving differently. He's recognizing what a Jacob he in fact was and how much that the wrath of men that is calculated against him is justified in the light of his conniving and usurping action. And this bowing is not achieving.
33:28 -  How should I say this? It's a real humility. This is where it takes God to be a man.
33:35 -  Any other humility that does not come from the importation of God is a false humility. It's a show. It's a self-effacing activity to gain something.
33:49 -  It's a salesman's play act. But I suspect that that was not what Jacob was doing. Something happened to Jacob.
33:59 -  There was an infusion of God who says in the New Testament, Learn of me, for I am humble and meek. That's what God is in his nature.
34:13 -  This is not an expectation that you learn. And this, by the way, is the one thing, in my opinion, that will save us from being seduced by false prophets and false apostles. Because all of these men will make a brave show of being the real thing.
34:30 -  They'll know how to say this. They'll know how to say that. They'll quote Paul. They'll have a wonderful ability to do things in the church and heal splits and neck and so on.
34:40 -  So how can we tell? Because of the phrase that I read from George Canada. What's his name?
34:49 -  Warnock. Warnock. In his book, he says, apostolic meekness.
34:56 -  And when I saw those two words joined together, something tripped in me. A switch was thrown that has never gone back. That conjunction of apostolic and meekness is the genius of the church and the very nature of God himself.
35:16 -  What is Israel? Israel is Jesus. Israel is God.
35:23 -  Israel is what God is in himself conferred into a people who will witness and devastate that in their own conduct and walk, however antithetical and opposed it is to the entire spirit of the world. Something happened to Jacob, and the blessing that he received was more than a good feeling.
35:46 -  He received the impartation of the life which contains the character of God himself. Namely, the humility and meekness of that that Jacob can never know, can never learn, can never claim, except that it is imparted. But what's a true apostle?
36:07 -  One who has such a relationship, such a walk, such a union with God that the very distinctive attribute that makes God God is expressed in him. And it's not going to come like walking on eggshells. Oh, you're calling on me? I'm not a speaker, please.
36:29 -  It's a man who will be forward, uncompromising, stern even, will be requiring, and yet that's humility. We need to be educated in what humility is in the sight of God and not the kind of thing that men employ to obtain their own ends, where they cuddle up to their wives or their horses or whatever it is to obtain favor.
36:58 -  It's an affectation. It's a show. It's a superficial overlay. True meekness and humility is through the cookie all the way. It's the essential character of God himself.
37:13 -  And if the church doesn't have it, it should not call itself the Israel of God. The fact that we have not won over the Jews by our witness and moved them to jealousy is the very evidence that we do not have it. The fact that we thought that we ourselves were their successors and that we are the Israel of God and God is finished with them is the very evidence that we don't have it.
37:37 -  It's arrogance. It's presumption. It's anything that you call it. Humility is the name of the game. And you can't be the first one in your neighborhood to have it by sending in your boxed tongue.
37:51 -  You have it to the degree that you have God, or more accurately, to the degree to which God has you. And I'm not boasting that I have it in any substantial measure, but this much I know to the degree that I do have it by virtue of that union. It is always misconstrued and invariably misunderstood by men who are on the other side of resurrection and is perceived as being arrogant.
38:18 -  That there's one cap call and offense for which I'm frequently charged. It's arrogance. How dare you say that? Who are you to say? Who do you think you are? Because you say something of boldness and of authority.
38:36 -  Not because you're a hotshot, but because how can you not say it? That God has given it and the moment has come to express it. When Jesus overthrew the money changers tables, it wasn't that he lost himself for a moment and lost his divine personality and personhood.
38:53 -  It was the very expression of it. He was submitting to the Father because all that he did, he saw from the Father, all that he spoke, he received from the Father. Even the act, the violent act of overthrowing the money changers tables was an act of humility.
39:08 -  So it does not appear to be that. So what kind of Christians are we? Do we want what appears to men that we might receive their approval and that our reputations might be secure? Or do we want the true thing even though it will invite the total misunderstanding of it to our embarrassment or to the loss of our reputation?
39:34 -  Isn't it remarkable? The paradoxes of the faith, of what authenticity requires. Because what is apostolic but that which is authentic? And it's for the want of that through the church that the world is in its present and unhappy condition today.
39:54 -  And it's for the want of it that Israel is in her unprecedented condition. That 2,000 years living in the midst of the church in all nations has not been sufficient to move the Jew to jealousy. For they have not seen what Israel means as it would, as it should have been profoundly revealed in the Gentile church who had met with God and had been transformed by him.
40:18 -  And exhibit the very character of life. Jew is the best. They'll rub you the wrong way. They'll aggravate you and irritate you and see what that goes for.
40:30 -  And answer them in kind and give them back in measure. Show them who you really are in God and how dare you insinuate or say. But Jesus when he was railed against did not rail back.
40:47 -  Hanging on the cross and experiencing the unspeakable pain of it and the shame of it naked. Don't think he has that one core that the artist paints. Naked and not able to cover himself as hands being nailed.
41:05 -  Listening to the jeering of his people. Come down and we will believe you. If there's ever a statement calculated to say, well, that's it.
41:17 -  I've been patient up to now. I've taken your gut up to now. But now let me tell you.
41:24 -  He went as a lamb to the slaughter. Silent night. Not a syllable, not a word.
41:35 -  Though he was provoked unbearably to say just something. To let them know and put them in their place. I tell you that the final issue of the cross.
41:48 -  If Jesus had spoken one word, been provoked. He would have contradicted Isaiah 53. He would not have fulfilled the prophetic foreshadowing.
41:59 -  And the world would have been cheated of its Messiah and its one word. I was looking at in that point. Look at Jacob and all of his team.
42:13 -  The chapter before the 32nd. 32nd. You go before him and say this.
42:22 -  And you do this. All trying to move himself out of the way of that arrow. Or whatever it is that is going to hit him.
42:34 -  Right hits, then he's dead. Every kind of means he can. He has to move away from that.
42:44 -  And the life of those that are with him are hanging in the valley. As a result of his, if he doesn't do it as God says do it. Then all of the people will die with him.
43:02 -  The stakes are most of it. So what do you think that he stayed up late that night or thinking of what his strategy will be in the morning? Knowing that he's going to face Esau?
43:14 -  How should I do this? Or was it simply the new man, the transformed man, being there and letting the life that is in him, that is now his life, have its own enactment in whatever form it could take? And I'll tell you sometimes it will not be bowing before men.
43:34 -  It will be offending them. Saying harsh things. As Paul himself did.
43:40 -  For example, in Athens on Mars Hill. You philosophers, always seeking God, never coming to the knowledge. I perceive in all things you are too superstitious.
43:51 -  Right in the kisser. Telling intellectual men, superstitious. That's the last and the wrong thing to say.
43:57 -  You offend your audience. You'll lose them. But Paul had no more preparation or deliberation of what he would speak on this ultimate moment on Mars Hill.
44:08 -  Where the stakes were enormous. The whole future. Greece, the nations, the scriptures.
44:16 -  It's a word to the nations. Than Jacob did before Esau on the morning of that confrontation. And that in fact is the paradigm of how an Israel of God always proceeds.
44:30 -  He never proceeds by calculating his strategy. He simply proceeds. Trusting the God who has blessed him with the infusion of his life.
44:42 -  So that even this morning, after the lousy night that I had physically. Knowing only one thing. That the subject was Israel.
44:52 -  That we had to probe how it is that God spoke that and gave that name to Jacob. What meaning. And then proceed.
45:01 -  Let the word unfold. So, Israel is a mode of life. It's a way of proceeding.
45:12 -  That is described as a limp. And we're seeing the first expression of it. In tracing Esau and bowing seven times.
45:25 -  Esau ran to meet him and embraced him and fell on his neck and kissed him and they left. That's uncharacteristic of Esau. He should have come upon him and strangled him.
45:35 -  But something broke in him. As it invariably will. When the character of God is set forth and displayed before men in humility.
45:45 -  The toughest customers will melt and crack and rake down when they see that. This is why I think we were getting that yesterday. We were talking about how the nations will freely bring to Israel all the abundance.
46:01 -  Because we'll see them in such a need to convert people. They'll be able to freely regard their state of God. Humility.
46:14 -  True humility disarms aggressive violence and arrogance. How can you proceed? It's a demonstration of our God and self.
46:26 -  How can you continue your eventual attitude when you're seeing this? It defuses. It empties you.
46:35 -  It breaks you. I don't think that this was some phony responsibility to us. The pity is that he never went on in that.
46:43 -  Maybe it was too late having cried those crocodile tears. But here is a remarkably true moment. Esau ran to meet him and embraced him and fell on his neck and kissed him.
46:56 -  And they left. Isn't that beautiful? I look forward to that.
47:01 -  When Israel will reap with Esau in the future. They regret their loss of life and the explosions in Jerusalem and on the buses and in the marketplaces. And the violence that they had perpetrated one against the other.
47:16 -  And the children that they had to bury as a result of that violence. They let them reap this kind of weakness. And history will be changed.
47:25 -  The future will be changed. This is the answer to the Palestinian crisis. That's from dividing the land.
47:32 -  And we'll give you this much to the 13th degree. And you can have this and this. But when men will reap together.
47:39 -  That's the end of their aggression. The end of their differences. The end of their ambitions.
47:44 -  The end of the things that always eventuated violence. But it was the act of Jacob as Israel that precipitated and broke Esau as they wept together. Think of all the church crises that have resulted in splits.
48:03 -  And even new denominations. And some of these vendettas, they continued through the decades. That shouldn't have resolved this way.
48:12 -  They should have repped together. And saved the church from being fragmented and splintered. Do you think this is a requirement of Israel?
48:23 -  This is the worry that's going to be seen. That Jews out of Israel will be going to Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Iran and Iraq. And bringing the Gospel of the Kingdom.
48:37 -  But not with some holy arrogance like now we've got it, but now we can share it with you. But coming in self-defeation here. But not with some holy arrogance like now we've got it, but now we can share it with you.
48:51 -  But coming in self-defeation here. Why is it that God broke off that branch and grafted into Gentiles? Why couldn't Israel have been saved initially when Jesus came?
49:18 -  Why was he rejected? Because had they received him, then they could have gone forth into the nations. And said, him whom we have been awaiting has arrived.
49:29 -  The scriptures have fulfilled. He's the king of glory and his throne is going to be established in our Jerusalem. And we're letting you know that if you want to come, he's bringing you welcome.
49:41 -  I don't think there was a single Gentile convert. Because the arrogance, the religious pride, the self-elevation, our scriptures have been fulfilled. Now, if you want, you can come.
49:54 -  It's very different from what the invitation is going to be. When a broken Israel, when a broken Jacob has become Israel, he will go again to Esau, bowing seven times with humility and weeping.
50:07 -  It will bring forth a very different response altogether. If that would have happened when Christ had arrived, the cross would have been put in Christ's hands. Of course, it came by their rejection.
50:20 -  You can see how many things have been served in that. The nation itself has to go through something by that rejection. It will bring them to a final confrontation of night that will fit them to be the Israel of God at last.
50:34 -  And to be to the nations what they should have been from the first, and fulfill God's promise that he had to bless all the families of the earth. What a long journey that is.
50:44 -  What a Jacob's pilgrimage that this nation has got to fulfill. And I think also, too, that I think the world's perception, the church's perception of the cross, you already see the reality of what we mean.
51:01 -  You see it as a symbolic hand. It tastes very special to me. So, verse five,
51:15 -  He lifted his eyes and saw the women and children and said, Who are these with you? The children whom God has graciously given you a servant.
51:23 -  And the maid servants came near there. They and their children had bowed down. And Leah also came near with her children and they bowed down.
51:29 -  After that, Joseph and Rachel came near and they bowed down. And Esau said, What do you mean by all this company which I meant?
51:37 -  And he said, These are to find favor in the sight of my Lord. What about that gift you sent? All those sheep and cattle and the stuff that went before you?
51:48 -  Is that a payoff? Is that a bribe? No, that's to find favor in your sight. And Esau said, Well, I don't want to take it.
51:58 -  I have enough, my brother. Keep what you have for yourself. Jacob said, No, please.
52:03 -  If I have now found favor in your sight, then receive my present from my hand, inasmuch as I have seen your face,
52:10 -  as though I have seen the face of God, and you will please me. Isn't it interesting that the thing that had been sent
52:20 -  to have to placate Esau, which was a gift of substantial wealth, cattle, sheep, and oxen,
52:28 -  those things in that part of the world were wealth. We married a woman and the dowry was three cows and two camels. She was a three-camel wife.
52:38 -  They measured their wealth in livestock. So he sent forth a formidable present. There's a difference in the spirit in which it was sent forth
52:49 -  and how it's to be understood and received. If Esau did not receive the gift, the transaction between them would not have been completed.
52:59 -  There would still have been an unanswered question and an agenda that still needed to be faced about the past. The receiving of the gift by Esau was a critically necessary moment.
53:11 -  But it was only a payoff and a bribe. He might likely have resisted it. But Jacob now, Israel, persuades him.
53:20 -  No, he says, this is a real gift. I'm giving this out of a heart of love. This isn't a payoff.
53:27 -  Because when I see your face, it's as if I have seen the face of God. And here, I don't know what to say.
53:36 -  This is the end of covenant. This is something I saw of him giving out of himself here because this being was born of his father's flesh and his flesh.
53:49 -  And I'm giving this. This is all of me. And I'm giving it to you.
53:56 -  Well, verse 3, it says, And he passed over before them. Before, they he said,
54:04 -  his wife had looked in the head of them. Now he is real. He set them before them.
54:12 -  And they're behind them. Does that answer the question of what does he see in Esau's face that he sees the face of God?
54:21 -  He should rightly have seen the face of an enemy, the face of an adversary, the face of a man steeped in the desire for vengeance and retaliation.
54:31 -  But he doesn't see that at all. He sees the face of God. Is that a play on words?
54:37 -  Is he getting poetic here? Has something happened to Jacob that transfuses and transforms even his seeing? That needs to come to mankind.
54:51 -  That you no longer see one as your enemy, but you see him as God sees him and sees the potential for him in a way that releases you from fear and anxiety for him
55:04 -  and the ability to extend for him favor and gift of love. I'm getting a prickly sense of God. This is drawing like God's hand.
55:19 -  I don't know what I'm saying. I'm past any understanding of myself. This is more than a little artistic expression.
55:30 -  This is an ultimate statement. When you can see in the face of your enemy the face of God. It has to be broken for that to happen.
55:39 -  It has to be real. It has to be right down to God. It's the end of all human conflict.
55:50 -  You've been talking today about a book I gave to Katie to watch called The Faith of Satan. Have you heard of it?
55:58 -  The woman that sent it to our Bible study wrote along with a little note that said, this book should be mandatory reading for every mature Christian. I agree.
56:06 -  It's about the bait of Satan being the bait of taking and offending the other. That even in the highest level that you're speaking of, these men who have been reading,
56:15 -  the smallest offense can grow into the largest wall through the entire book. It changed our whole group. It changed everybody's lives.
56:27 -  The bait of Satan is the bait of taking and offending. It doesn't really support us. I think we should backtrack.
56:38 -  There's something hidden here which is suggested. It is found in Jacob seeing the angel's face. The face of God.
56:55 -  Prior to this encounter, Jacob had his own perception of a God who is mean-spirited, who has to enter into a conversation with him. If you will bless me, if you will guide me, if you will bring me back to this country,
57:10 -  keep me safe, then you will be my God and I will do this for you. His perception of God gradually changes and has to be brought to this night where the angel was allowed to wrestle with him
57:27 -  and he was allowed to prevail over the angel. Actually the angel had the potential to crush Jacob, all his bones, because by just the touch of the angel's hand was the strength of the man.
57:46 -  So the angel actually could destroy him if he wanted to, but the angel did not and allowed him with his human strength to prevail. There's something there that's a paradox.
58:03 -  Not only that, the angel revealed the face of God to Jacob. Jacob saw that that face was not a mean-spirited face, was not a terrorizing face, but a face of kindness, of mercy, of forgiveness.
58:19 -  So when he saw having that face of forgiveness, he recalled that face. I think that's something very rich. There's another thing.
58:34 -  When Jacob sends Perth, the family, over, you see the wind. He's sending the best over, but you have this afraid man sitting there. Then he meets the angel, tries to meet, and he rises up on that part
58:50 -  with all the characteristics of Jesus Christ, the protector, the provider, the husband man, the head of the church, and he goes on how to stand and go before them as the protector for them, ready to take the baptism as Jesus has done for us in the Cross of Calvary.
59:11 -  That's what I feel.