Jesus vs Cesar 

00:00 -  I want to try to speak something that I've never before spoken, and I don't know how quite it's going to come out. I'm dangling two Bibles, and I've been reading in Shakespeare this afternoon in preparation.
00:16 -  What? Preparation for a gospel message? I'll tell you, I've never felt more tremulous in beginning, but we can't even pray.
00:27 -  Is that the idea? Not even a word of prayer? You can't even say something like, Lord, overshadow us.
00:39 -  Let Your presence be felt. Let Your Spirit prevail. Speak out of Your earthen vessel.
00:48 -  Just lock us in together with You, and open up to us, Lord God, the depths and the beauty of Your Word and Your truth and Your way. Give us an enhanced appreciation for who You are and what You've done.
01:03 -  And bless, Lord God, every single individual in this room, spare none, minister by Your Spirit. And if we could say it, we would say, in the name of Yeshua HaMashiach, Jesus the Christ.
01:15 -  Is that what they call being as wise as serpents? I want to speak tonight about blood. And I have to confess right from the very beginning that I've been a boxing fan all
01:36 -  my life. I loved boxing with a passion. I loved it so much that at Berkeley I even tried out for the boxing team and came home
01:46 -  that first day with a black eye and never came back. I thought somehow I was going to be a natural because I'd watched so many fights over TV that I could duck and weave and bob and feint and jab and right cross and uppercuts and
02:02 -  combinations in my mind. But when I actually got out there with a 30-year-old body panting and sagging, somehow the body didn't correspond to what the mind knew.
02:15 -  But I'll tell you what happened to wean me from my love for boxing. I went one day and I actually watched a match. And I'll tell you that it was a very different experience being in person as against watching
02:31 -  it through the boob tube. In the boob tube, somehow it was exciting. I used to watch these guys getting pummeled in the corner and sagged and collapsed.
02:40 -  And I'll tell you, my heart was pounding with excitement. Or when the mouthpiece would go flying across the ring. But when I sat in an auditorium like this and saw my first fight in the flesh and the
02:53 -  first blow that went crack into a man's ribs and I saw the huge welt well up in that spot, a strange sickly feeling began to rise in my gut. And I'll tell you, when that mouthpiece did go flying over the ring, I felt faint.
03:11 -  And when the blood began to trickle out of the nostril in the corners of the mouth and the blow still came before that fight was over, I was very sick. And why am I telling you that tonight?
03:25 -  Because there's something about the nature of the modern world that conspires against reality in every form. And you can almost say in a certain sense, our whole life is a boob tube existence, plastic
03:39 -  and unreal, somehow shielded from the actualities of life. And I think that this spirit of unreality has permeated even into the spiritual realm. And the things which ought to be for us most sacred and most deep have somehow never really
03:59 -  penetrated with the blockbusting, devastating spiritual effect that they ought. I think of all the areas where this is most lacking has got to do with the atonement of the Messiah Jesus.
04:15 -  I'll tell you what's brought that to my realization. Maybe some of you have seen the same film, it's called Dry Bones. It's filmed in Israel and the whole narration is composed solely of prophetic texts out
04:29 -  of the Hebrew Scriptures. The film begins with a very ominous music. And for some reason, as I watched it that first time, when the program began and the
04:42 -  music went forth, I felt a chill in my soul. And the image on the screen was quite blurred. And I wondered for the life of me what it was.
04:52 -  It seemed to be a huge white mass. And it wasn't stationary, it kind of pulsated, there was sort of a rhythm, something like a heartbeat.
05:01 -  And in fact, the whole music had the ominous sound of a deep and eternal heartbeat. Something pulsating, something to do with the most basic rhythm of life and death. And as that screen came into focus, the image, that white heaving thing back and forth proved
05:19 -  to be the side of a sheep breathing heavily. And you knew somehow that the breathing was not the normal rhythm, but that it was breathing in near panic and terror.
05:33 -  And just as you are beginning to surmise these things, a dark shadow falls over this animal and it's a man, burly. And then the camera swings on him and he's wearing biblical garb, bearded, he's an Israelite
05:47 -  of the Israelites, and there's a dagger thrust through his belt. And for some reason you have the most eerie, sickly feeling in your soul, and you're thinking to yourself, surely they're not going to go any further than this.
06:02 -  But lo and behold, the man takes the animal and throws it down on its heaving side, and he pulls out some leather throngs from his belt, and he ties the legs of this poor animal, and sure enough the camera swings and there's a stone altar built and waiting.
06:20 -  And then you're saying to yourself, surely they'll not go further than this. But lo and behold, the animal is picked up and put on top of the altar. I tell you, my heart was beating so fast at about that time that I thought it was going
06:35 -  to come right out of my chest. And then to my unspeakable horror, they actually showed this man pull that knife out of his belt and raise it above this animal, and the blade was glinting in the sun.
06:49 -  And the next thing you saw was the camera focusing on the bound feet of the lamb, and in a certain moment there was a jerk, and you knew that the knife had been plunged in in that moment.
07:02 -  And the next thing you saw is blood rolling down the sides of the altar. And if that were not enough, another sound even more eerie and ominous than what has already come, sounding like a crackling.
07:19 -  And sure enough, as the camera goes back on the animal, which is now just utterly prostrate and hurt and lifeless, there's a fire that's been built under it, and the wool is beginning to singe and burn as dark clouds of smoke go up.
07:37 -  How do you like them apples? I'll tell you, when the light went on that day, and I was sitting in an audience of believers, we were ridded, dumb, struck in our seats.
07:49 -  Not a one of us could budge. I never saw a more pale, believing audience in my life. The blood had flushed out of their faces.
07:59 -  We had seen something, to put it in a word, horrible. There's something about the shedding of blood that is awful, that kills the soul. There's something about watching a sacrifice performed that will leave you never again
08:22 -  the same. And I'll tell you that if we were so fortunate as to live our believing lives in the generation when the temple still stood and sacrifices were performed, particularly Yom Kippur,
08:37 -  the atonement sacrifice, we would have a much headier regard for sin than we now have. This whole generation, unlike previous generations of believers, does not know the terror of sin.
08:58 -  And that is a cause of great grief to God, not only for His believing children, who allow themselves such liberties and license and flirtations with the world because of it, but all the more for modern world, steeped in unbelief, headstrong, arrogant, cocksure,
09:20 -  filled with filth, full of rebellion, murder, lust, and doing all these things in the name of enlightenment, progress, innovation, experimentation, and every other high sounding word. The modern world has completely lost its terror of sin because we've never once glimpsed
09:44 -  that biblical measure which God ordained should be the propitiation for it, the sacrifice of an animal by the shedding of blood. Maybe the very concept is an embarrassment in modern Judaism.
10:03 -  And if you oppress a rabbi about modern day sacrifice, he may choke and spurt a bit and clear his throat and say something, depending whether he's reform or conservative, that this was something ancient, something primal, something primitive, but Judaism has evolved
10:23 -  and we've progressed from these lower, bizarre forms to more sophisticated forms of religion. For my own part I say, all the more the pity. Now you say, Art, why were you studying Shakespeare today?
10:39 -  I'll tell you why. Because I stayed up with Inger about ten days ago and watched late at night a performance of the play Julius Caesar, made in England.
10:55 -  And I'll tell you that I was so gripped by the assassination of Caesar that it continued to work in my heart long after I shut the box off. I was really amazed at just how profound a vehicle Shakespeare found in the assassination
11:14 -  of a single man. Now I'll tell you that when that scene that took place in the Senate, where Caesar was butchered by those who were close to him and one after another plunged their daggers into
11:26 -  his gut and his body was just riddled with holes and lurched and fell, it made a fantastic impression upon me. I saw that it really had a profound potential for tragedy and Shakespeare used it to good
11:42 -  effect. In fact, I think that Shakespeare did far more with the assassination of the mortal man Caesar than ever we believers have done with the assassination, if you will, of the
11:59 -  Lamb of God, Jesus Christ. And I just want to quote a few passages from Caesar and from the play, and excuse me if I'm not dramatic enough and I don't know how to read these lines properly, but some
12:14 -  of these words, if you'll see them in a double meaning, if you'll see them in an application beyond that directed to Julius Caesar and see a figure much greater than he, who suffered also wounds, I think you'll get something of what God has impressed upon my heart to
12:32 -  speak tonight. There's a scene when Mark Anthony, who loved Caesar, comes into the Senate room where Caesar had already been assassinated and there are the men whose hands have just been dipped
12:47 -  in his blood in a kind of an unholy covenant or compact, still holding their daggers. And here's Anthony, dumbstruck as he looks upon this scene, this bloody, gory scene, and sees the body stretched out of that one of whom he was so enamored.
13:06 -  And finally, when he finds his voice and these men have left, he looks over the body and he speaks these words. Thou art the ruins of the noblest man that ever lived in the tide of times, woe to the
13:18 -  hand that shed this costly blood. Aren't they tremendous words? Looking over the dead cadaver of a mortal Caesar?
13:32 -  The noblest man that ever lived in the tide of times, is that so? I can think of one far nobler than a Roman emperor whose wounds should have moved us to much more profound things than even Shakespeare was moved.
13:47 -  And the world has made a great to-do over the play Julius Caesar, but has not had so much consideration for a much nobler one than of whom that play was written. Oh, I know there's a great mention of the name Jesus Christ in our generation, but I'll
14:04 -  tell you that we've not begun to probe or to plumb the depths of his being nor the nobility of his act. Quite the contrary, we seem to be moving in the other direction.
14:16 -  We've emblazoned him on our t-shirts, and a whole groovy movement and generation has grown up, and a lot of fingers pointing skyward, and millions being made in heavy jewelry worn around necks, and little things for suction cups for dashboards.
14:31 -  But I don't think that the nobility of the person or the act has really struck our souls. If it did, we would sin far less. Now when the centurion and they that were with him watching Jesus saw the earthquake
14:50 -  and those things that were done, they feared greatly, saying, truly, this was the Son of God. Something about the demeanor of Jesus in the paroxysms of death and something about the
15:04 -  earth plunged into an uncanny darkness and shaken in the last moments of his life persuaded an unbeknownst centurion and those that were with him, truly, this was the Son of God. A much more lofty acknowledgement than what Mark Anthony had to say of Caesar.
15:25 -  We read elsewhere in the scriptures, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation and took upon him the form of a servant and was made in the likeness
15:44 -  of man and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death even the death of the cross. And I'll tell you that the one who is spoken here is a much nobler one than that one whose
16:02 -  blood was spilled in the Senate that day in Rome. I'm pausing and hesitating because I'm new at this and I'm not quite sure just how to proceed.
16:24 -  The speech that Mark Anthony makes over the corpse of Caesar is a masterpiece and every kid in high school knows at least the first few lines, friends, Romans and countrymen, lend me your ears.
16:37 -  I've come not to praise Caesar, but to bury him, the good that men do live after them, but the evil is often interred with the bones and so on. It's really a fantastic speech if you go beyond those opening lines.
16:52 -  I just want to quote from some of the words that the inspired Shakespeare put into the mouth of a Mark Anthony over the dead cadaver of a mortal Caesar. Judge ye Gods how dearly Caesar loved him, speaking of Brutus who gave him that last
17:09 -  cruel thrust. This was the most unkindest cut of all, for when the noble Caesar saw him stabbed, then burst his mighty heart.
17:19 -  I tell you these are grand words. This is poetry. This is inspired imagination at its heart, but what should we say of that heart that
17:29 -  was burst at the dung heap of Jerusalem when he who came to his own was rejected and he who made the world and came into the world found that the world knew him not and that the very people that he came to save stood at the cross and taunted him and cried, You
17:50 -  have saved others, come down and save yourself and we'll believe. They gaped on him with their mouths. And I understand medically speaking that when the centurion thrust the spear into the side
18:05 -  of the stricken Messiah and that gush of blood and water came out, that that's the evidence of a heart that had burst. This is the most unkindest cut of all, for when the noble Caesar saw him stabbed, then
18:20 -  burst his mighty heart. May we appreciate the sacrifice of our Christ all the more because of the human inspiration of a Shakespeare over a much lesser man.
18:33 -  Oh, now you weep and I perceive you feel the dent of pity, Mark Anthony said to the Roman crowd in this great funeral oration. These are gracious drops, your tears.
18:45 -  My souls, what weep you when you but behold our Caesar's vesture wounded, aren't these tremendous words? And he held up the cloak, the garment that Caesar was wearing in his death and showed
18:57 -  them the rents and the holes where the daggers had stabbed through. Look you here, don't look just at this cloak, but look you here at this body. Here is himself marred.
19:12 -  Saying that it should be the same word found in Isaiah 53, he had no comeliness that we should desire him, marred, his visage marred more than any man. Look you here, don't cry saccharine tears, don't get schmaltzy and sentimental, but look
19:30 -  you here at these wounds. And they cried out this Roman crowd, oh, pity a spectacle, oh noble Caesar, oh woeful day, oh most bloody sight.
19:44 -  And Mark Anthony goes on this way to speak, I have neither wit, nor words, nor worth. And I can say the same thing for myself, I'm a crude instrument of God. I only speak right on, I tell you that which you yourselves do know and show you sweet
20:00 -  Caesar's wounds, poor, poor dumb mouths and bid them speak for me. And I'm just trusting that the Holy Spirit is somehow speaking as I raise up to you tonight these dumb wounds that they might have more eloquent tongues and speak to us.
20:20 -  Psalm 22, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why do you refuse to help me or even to listen to my groans? Day or night I keep on weeping and crying for your help, but there's no reply for you
20:33 -  are holy. The praises of our Father surrounded your throne, they trusted you and you delivered them.
20:39 -  You heard their cries for help and saved them, they were never disappointed when they sought your aid. But I, I am a worm, not a man, scorned and despised by my own people and by all mankind.
20:55 -  Everyone who sees me mocks and sneers and shrugs, is this the one who rolled his burden on the Lord? They laugh.
21:04 -  Is this the one who claims the Lord delights in him? We'll believe it when we see God rescue him. Ha ha.
21:11 -  Lord, how you have helped me before. You took me safely from my mother's womb and brought me through the years of infancy. I have depended upon you since birth.
21:21 -  You have always been my God. Don't leave me now, for trouble is near and no one else can possibly help. I am surrounded by fearsome enemies, strong as the giant bulls from Bashan.
21:32 -  They come at me with open jaws like roaring lions attacking their prey. My strength has drained away like water and all my bones are out of joint. My heart melts like wax.
21:42 -  My strength has dried up like sunbaked clay. My tongue sticks to my mouth, cleaved to the roof of my jaw. It says in the King James Version, for you have laid me in the dust of death.
21:55 -  No human conspirators here. This is the doing of God. The enemy, this gang of evil men, circles me like a pack of dogs.
22:04 -  They have pierced my hands and feet. I can count every bone in my body. See these men of evil, gloathe and stare.
22:11 -  They divide my clothes among themselves by a toss of the dice. What a fantastic description of one of the cruellest forms of death, devised centuries after these passages were written by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit through a David who, in
22:31 -  intimated as a prophet, that suffering that should come upon the greater David. In Isaiah 53, that portion never read in a synagogue, did you know that? In Hebrew, there's a Haftorah selection read in every Shabbat, every Sabbath.
22:48 -  And they'll come and they'll find, as the rabbis have determined, an appropriate portion of the prophets to read alongside the portion from the five books of Moses, so that in the course of the year, they have completely, they have completed the five books of Moses
23:02 -  and many of the writings, the prophets, the Psalms and so on. And they'll come to a place where they'll read to Isaiah 52, 11, and then pick up the following week, Isaiah 54, a portion never read in synagogues by the wisdom of rabbis
23:22 -  who, I suppose, would think that if it were read, somehow there may be a stray Jewish heart pricked at the uncanny things which are written there that might lead them to wondering of whom are these things spoken.
23:38 -  Let's read it again if you'll be patient with me tonight. I'm reading from the Living Bible. My servant shall prosper, Isaiah 52, 13.
23:57 -  He shall be highly exalted, yet many shall be amazed when they see him. Yes, even far off nations and their kings, they shall stand dumbfounded, speechless in his presence, for they shall see and understand what they had not been told before.
24:13 -  They shall see my servant beaten and bloodied, so disfigured, and King James marred more than any man. One would scarcely know that it was a person standing there, so shall he cleanse many nations.
24:25 -  I suppose I was really turned off the trail as a Jewish kid going to Brooklyn because of Jesus that I ever saw, with those pretty little things of some guy with an acala nose and blonde wispy hair, every wisp in place, and milky blue eyes and recessed chin, somehow
24:42 -  looking very pontificating and garbed in a robe, and somehow all I could say was, yich. But I'll tell you, in the course of a journey, ten years ago, as a distressed modern man, an atheist, former Marxist, who had belonged to several left-wing organizations on the
25:02 -  attorney general's list, whose whole life, from adolescence to the age of 35, had been nothing but restless striving and seeking for truth and understanding in a stricken world, and who had despised religion as an obstacle to progress, and looked upon Christianity
25:17 -  as the greatest offense against Jews, because all that we had suffered in that name, which name I could not even speak, it was a bone in my throat. But I'll tell you, in the course of that journey, I came to Madrid, and I visited the great
25:30 -  museum there called the Prado, and I was amazed as I spent the day in that place, and you can spend a week and not begin even to scratch at its enormous riches. As I went from floor to floor, and saw these great masters, the Rubens, the Valques, and
25:44 -  the, I can't think of these, some of these great, you name them, there was just one predominant theme, Christ. Christ crucified. Christ being taken down from the cross. Christ in the tomb. Christ in his suffering. Christ in the garden of Gethsemane. Christ, Christ, Christ. And
26:04 -  I'll tell you for a man whose name that brought a bone in my throat, I was enormously impressed at the profundity of the theme, and did not realize how powerful an impact it had made on the imagination of men right up until modern times. But if we were to survey the content
26:24 -  of a modern museum, we would not find so noble a theme. We would find far more the vomit and the puke, and the inner glimpses of sick souls in paint merely flung at canvases, and every kind of pop art and bizarre and grotesque expression of defeat and disillusionment that
26:43 -  characterizes art in our generation. We need the noble theme that Christ was for those who had an understanding of his nobility and his sacrifice. That was the first stroke that God performed on my Jewish heart in preparation of things soon to follow.
27:03 -  Well, in the course of that wandering, I met a German, praise God. You know that people, and I remember I met them on a boat in the Rhine River, and the man was an artist, and it was love at first sight. There was such an affinity of souls, the fact that I was
27:20 -  from Brooklyn and Jewish meant not a thing. It's as if culture and nationality were transcended, and this man put me up for several days at an island called Reichenau out in the Bowdoin Sea, and we had wonderful fellowship and discussed many things. We finally came to the time when
27:38 -  I asked him about being a German and serving in the German army during the war, and how was he personally implicated in the death of my own people, and the poor man choked and sputtered, and told me even as an art student living in Vienna, he had many Jewish
27:54 -  friends, and it cut his soul to see what was happening in his own nation, and so much as he could himself, he tried to separate himself from any kind of personal involvement. We sat in an ancient cathedral one day speaking in the back, and we saw through the plaster
28:17 -  some ancient frescoes of Jesus strung out on the cross, and we got on that theme, which was so alien to my life as a Jewish man, and alien to the life of most modern Jews, because it's not part of their traditional Judaism, and therefore my great cry as I speak from
28:34 -  place to place is to express so well as I can the definitive Judaism of God, a portion of which we've read already in the 22nd Psalm, and which we're reading now in Isaiah 53. Unknown to most Jews, and he said, Art, you've got to visit this special museum that's in
28:52 -  Alsace-Lorraine, and you'll see there a painting of Jesus crucified that you must see. Well, would you believe the kind of character I was? I went painstakingly out of my way to see this one painting. Several days' journey, and finally I saw it, and I never regret it.
29:08 -  It wasn't that blonde, wispy Jesus, every strand in place. I saw a figure gaunt with bones protruding, stretched out on that cross, one of the most horrible aberrations of things human upon which I'd ever laid my eyes, bruised with welts that were ugly and blue and green
29:28 -  and discolored and pussied, and then in the paroxysms of agony, and something began to penetrate my consciousness that I never before understood. A more recent experience as a believer and in full-time ministry, called of God, especially to my Jewish people, and
29:47 -  meeting a Jewish intellectual in New York City and witnessing to him, and the man brings me up to his bed in Greenwich Village, an intellectual of the first magnitude, and that guy had books from floor to ceiling. His living room was walled with books, and every single
30:03 -  one on things spiritual. The man was intensely interested in things spiritual, but he couldn't buy Christ, and I just began to, at random, pull out books from the shelf, and I was amazed at how many of these books actually had to do with Jesus, and I couldn't understand it.
30:23 -  Great photo plates and color and all kinds of elaborate things with quotations from the Sermon on the Mount, and I just kind of raised my heart to God, and I said, Lord, what is this? These books seem to celebrate your Christ, and yet I know that this man is at enmity
30:38 -  with him, and the Lord said, let this be a lesson to you of how far Satan will go to men to applaud my Christ as a teacher, to acknowledge him even as a prophet, to wax sentimental even about his death, but to keep them from the true recognition of the meaning
31:01 -  of his suffering and death, and the receiving of him as Messiah and Messiah, by which act they pass themselves from life unto death. We have not understood with that stretched out figure, more noble than anything described by Shakespeare, what that suffering and death
31:20 -  means. Yet it was our grief he bore, it says in Isaiah 53-4, our sorrows that weighed him down, and we thought his troubles were a punishment from God for his own sins, why we had it all wrong, but he was wounded and bruised for our sins. He was chastised that we might
31:41 -  have peace. He was lashed and we were healed. We are the ones who sit away like sheep, we who left God's path to follow our own, yet God laid on him the guilt and sins of every one of us. Oh, precious people, this is the Judaism of God. There's a God who's angry
32:02 -  with the sinner every day, it says in the Scriptures. The soul that sinneth, it shall die. The wages of sin is death. There's not a righteous man upon the earth who doeth good and sinneth not, it says in the Old Testament Scriptures. If God were to mark iniquity,
32:21 -  who can stand? And yet I'll come and I'll speak in a place like this, and someone will bring a Jewish friend, as in the instance I'm thinking of, it was a husband, the woman was a believer, and the Jewish husband was not yet, and I gave my cry, and I spoke that
32:38 -  morning about the two Judaisms, the Judaisms of men and the Judaism of God, and how only the Judaism of God is a rank offense to men, and few there be that desire it, and the crowd left that morning. I don't even think the Christians were too excited for what I spoke,
32:54 -  of course they passed by and they looked rather grim, and a few were able to manage a little bit of a nod, and a few even thanked me for my nice sermon. But I'll tell you when a Jewish man passed by, his face was stricken. That man wouldn't so much as tolerate
33:07 -  my existence, and I thought, well Katz, you really blew it now. And he left, and they took me out to eat that day, and who do you think was sitting in the restaurant eating with his wife? So with typical Jewish chutzpah, aided and abetted by the Holy Spirit, that
33:24 -  means brass, I took up my plate, knife, and fork, and cup, and I just went over to his table and invited myself. And he was really a sweet guy. In fact, I'll say he was more than a sweet guy. He was a commendable individual. Were there no God, I would offer him as a
33:42 -  model of what a moral and ethical man living by his own wit and resolution should be. But the whole issue, guys, is that there is a God, and he's holy, holy, holy, and he says that we've all sinned against this holiness and fallen short of his glory. It's not enough
34:07 -  to be moral or ethical or altruistic. The most brilliant nation in the world, marked by such characteristics as these, who gave the world its finest culture, was also the one to take six million odd catches and make of them lampshades. It's not enough to be
34:26 -  moral and ethical. It's only enough to be holy, holy, holy, as he is holy. And praise God, he's made that available. And so I had a conversation with this Jewish lawyer that day. Man, he was brilliant. And I just ate and I listened to it. And he was making such
34:44 -  a case for himself, it was overwhelmingly impressive. He goes to bat for the underdog and he takes cases without fees and he helps the downtrodden. And he said, surely, Art, if there is a God, he doesn't care what you believe. That's kid stuff. Anybody can believe.
35:02 -  He cares what you do. And when it comes to doing, I do this, I do that, I buy Israel bonds, I, I, I, I, I. So he went on speaking the gospel of the modern world, practicing those Judaisms where you can purchase a pew and have your name plate installed and where
35:22 -  you can be applauded and honored, but where the spirit of God is never known, let alone his power. And when he finished, I began to relate to him the foolish gospel of Jesus Christ. And about four o'clock when I had come to the end of it, this man had visibly
35:40 -  changed. He was no longer the cocksure man that he was previously. He was jarred because he had come to realize that perhaps it is that if there's a God, his ways are not our ways, nor are his thoughts our thoughts. And the man had gone gray and he was trembling
35:59 -  and it was time to leave. And he extended a trembling hand to me and being a real Jew, knowing that if he was not going to at least win this game, he was going to at least try for a draw. And he said to me, Artie said, I really respect you guys and I see that you're
36:15 -  a man of zeal and that you really believe your convictions. He said, I'll tell you what, you acknowledge what I believe. You honor and tolerate me and my beliefs and I'll do that in yours. Okay. All of a sudden I jerked and my face was set as a flint. And I knew
36:35 -  that what was pouring out of my eyes was that resurrected Christ whose wounds speak eloquently looking at this Jewish man through me. And I heard myself saying, brother, so long as there's breath in my body, not only will I not tolerate your opinions, but I'll do all in my power to persuade
36:58 -  you to give them up and to make God's convictions your own for except that you do, you shall surely perish. You may think that that's cool people, but I call that love. There's a God who's performed an ultimate sacrifice of unspeakable anguish, suffering,
37:22 -  pain and death. The world has trafficked in it and cheapened it and deprecated it. And even those of us who believe, and I count myself among you, have not understood and had the import understood and had the import of Christ and Him crucified registered upon our hearts.
37:45 -  We've not understood the terror of sin and the offense of sin to a holy God that could only be required by the shedding of the blood of the blemishless one. And my whole confidence tonight in my willingness to speak like this is that there's a promise of God
38:08 -  that if His Son shall be lifted up, He shall draw many to Himself. And not lifted up in His effete imitation as He's been portrayed in modern times, but I believe lifted up in His grotesque suffering and anguish and death. There's a brazen serpent that God once raised
38:29 -  this night, just as there was raised in the wilderness, because there are souls in this room right now who have already been bitten by the evil serpent and bear already the marks of death in their body. And my God promises you that if you'll see this Christ who is being raised up
38:50 -  and believe upon Him and look upon Him, you shall not see death. Jesus cried to His kinsmen, if you'll not believe that I am He, you shall perish in your sins. He was oppressed and He was afflicted, yet He never said a word. He was brought as a lamb to
39:14 -  the slaughter and as a sheep before His sheers is dumb, so He stood silent before the ones condemning Him. From prison and trial they led Him away to His death. But who among the people of that day realized it was their sins that He was dying for? I can almost insert a little footnote.
39:32 -  Who among us this day understand that it was our sin that He was dying for? This is the scandal of the modern world, and even in those churches called by His name, there's precious little preaching of Christ and Him crucified.
39:50 -  But who among the people of that day realized it was their sins that He was dying for, that He was suffering their punishment? He was buried like a criminal in a rich man's grave, but He had done no wrong and had never spoken an evil word.
40:07 -  Which of you can convict me of sin? Jesus said to His accusers. Behold the Lamb of God! The Jewish prophet spoke when he saw Jesus for the first time in His messianic ministry, who has come to take away the sins of the world. Take your Lamb without spot and without blemish
40:26 -  and kill it, and dip into the blood, and mark the doorpost and the lintels of your house. When I shall pass, when I shall see the blood, I shall pass over. Oh my God, how we've been instructed, how it's been written into the history of the race, and how we've not understood who
40:48 -  Yeshua is. Yet it was the Lord's good plan to bruise Him and fill Him with grief, but when His soul has been made an offering for sin, then He shall have a multitude of children, many as. He shall live again and God's program shall prosper in His hands. When He sees all
41:07 -  that is accomplished by the anguish of His soul, He shall be satisfied. Can you be patient with me just a few minutes more? In the scene of Julius Caesar that so impressed me, Mark Anthony was a very cunning orator,
41:28 -  and after he revealed that pierced cadaver of Caesar, he withdrew from his cloak a will, a parchment upon which Caesar had written his last will and testament and waved it before the crowd. They were already getting incensed about the unjust death of this Caesar, and then he
41:49 -  wanted to tell them something about the content of this will. But here's a parchment, he said, with the seal of Caesar. This is his will. Now let but the commoners hear this testament, and they would go and kiss dead Caesar's wounds and dip their napkins in His sacred blood.
42:12 -  A book came into my hands 10 years ago aboard the deck of a ship, a tramp steamer, very fit place, because I was a tramp, broken, undone, lost. A book I never would have before deigned to read. It was beneath my contempt. It's called the New Testament.
42:31 -  It's a will and a testament of a testator, one who had died and left a great inheritance to those who are his heirs and co-heirs with Jesus Christ, even becoming by that sons of God. What shall we say if Shakespeare can say through the lips of Mark Anthony,
42:51 -  if you knew the content of Caesar's will, you would come and kiss dead Caesar's wounds and dip your napkins in His blood. And then he goes on to read the conditions of the will. To every Roman citizen he gives 75 drachmas. Oh, the shouts that came out of the mouths of
43:10 -  the actors when I watched that night, the great jubilation, 75 drachmas, while there's enough and that for three or four nights out on the town, we'll have a blast. And they cried out, Oh, most noble Caesar, oh, royal Caesar. They were so moved by gratitude for the 75 crummy drachmas.
43:30 -  Moreover, he hath left you all his walks, his private arbors, and newly planted orchards on this side of the Tiber. He hath left them to you and to your heirs forever. Common pleasures to walk abroad and recreate yourself. And the magnanimity of Caesar was so great that Anthony
43:49 -  had to finish his remarks by saying, here was a Caesar, here was an emperor, here was a noble one. When comes such another? I tell you, if men could be moved for the will of a mortal like Caesar, who left them some pocket money to burn and a place to walk among arbors by the side of
44:08 -  the River Tiber, what then should be our exaltation and our joy unspeakable for the great inheritance that's left us by our testator who died and gave us an inheritance in God as heirs and co-heirs with Jesus Christ as sons of the living God.
44:28 -  Caesar, noblest spirit of the age, what then of Christ? Every wound of Caesar's had a mouth, what of the Messiah's? The reading of Caesar's will and testament delighted a multitude, what of our Mashiach, our Christ? If the death of a mortal Caesar plunged an empire
44:51 -  into strife and chaos, what of the death of the Son of the Living God? If Caesar's death inspired a Shakespeare, what of Christ? His death is the greater, not a conspiratorial stabbing, but a death freely chosen. It didn't come at the crest,
45:15 -  the high watermark of Jesus' popularity, but of painful rejection and shame. It didn't come in a garlanded Senate hall, it came on a scummy refuse heap in the outskirts of Jerusalem, a place of shame. It didn't come with just a few thrusts of the knife
45:37 -  and then expiration and the cessation of consciousness and death. It came, not a sudden release, but as agony, torturously prolonged, hung between heaven and earth, his weight excruciatingly suspended on four wounds. I'm reading a quotation from a man who's
45:56 -  made a real study on the nature of crucifixion. Death by crucifixion, he writes, included the sum total of all the suffering that the human body can experience, and the amount of suffering that all the suffering that the human body can experience, cramps, thirst, sleeplessness,
46:16 -  fever, open shame, torment, intensified just up to the point at which they can be endured at all, but stopping just short of the relief of unconsciousness. Talk about gas ovens. This must be like it, one of the high watermarks of the ingenuity of men for cruelty.
46:36 -  Every movement brought fresh torture. Each wound throbbed with incessant anguish, intolerable thirst mounted, and yet there was no voice to comfort, no Mark Anthony to come behind and make grand eloquent funeral orations, not even a free hand to wipe the bloody sweat
46:59 -  and blood away and out of one's eyes burning there, or to put to flight the flies that were buzzing. When he shall be lifted up, we're promised, he shall draw many men to himself. I've tried speaking a number of subjects related to the gospel in the course of the ministry God has
47:24 -  given me in speaking to university audiences, but I believe that there's a God that's prompting me to lay hold of the heart of the issue Christ and Him crucified. Something's been raised up tonight by the Spirit of God, and I pray in a way that we've never seen it. Maybe we've only seen it,
47:43 -  as I saw boxing before, somehow rendered antiseptic without the capacity to shock and to overwhelm, because we've gotten it in an insipid way, in droning services, and it's not really penetrated our hearts. It says in Isaiah 53 that when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin,
48:07 -  he shall see his seed and prolong his days. There's a great wonder to this gospel, and that's this, that if we see that brazen serpent lifted up in the wilderness, and guys, I pray with all my heart, that you understand that however comfortably we're seated this night, in this lovely auditorium,
48:28 -  in this grand community, that the world is being plunged in increasing measure and degree into an unspeakable wilderness of such ferocity as the modern world has not known, but has been described as will be the consequence in the end times.
48:44 -  And it may be that there are individuals sitting here whose individual lives, personal lives, are already a wilderness. When Israel was in the wilderness, bitten by the serpent, the sting of death, the foolish expediency of God to Moses was that he
49:00 -  should beat out of brass a serpent and raise it on a pole, and that as many as would look up and see would live. There's a foolish thing that's been raised up tonight, a crucified Savior. Who bore our transgressions and our iniquities. And I'll tell you, there's not a time that I've
49:24 -  spoken that there's been angry response, men have been disgusted and stormed away, there's been reproach and insult, but for as many as walked away, there's always a few that remain. And the great beauty is, even in a place I can remember, like tonight, where they said, cats, you're not
49:43 -  allowed to pray here. I closed the meeting with something like this. I said, I've been informed that we're not allowed to pray, but I just want to commend a prayer for your consideration at your earliest convenience. Jesus said, my sheep will hear his voice, and if you've heard his voice
50:01 -  tonight, I ask you to call upon that one of whom the Scripture says that the same Lord over Jew and Gentile is rich unto all who call upon his name. I just advise that they should pray something like this, God forgive me. It may be that I've had no particular consciousness of sin, and just as an
50:23 -  aside, how could they have if they've never seen the bleeding sacrifices and the stench of burnt flesh go up off stone altars to remind them? If they've never seen a girl stoned to death on the doorstep of her father's house because she was found not to be a virgin in the night that she
50:40 -  was married, I'll tell you, if we had seen those things and participated in the death of such a one by stones thrown from our hand, we'd be a lot more careful about retaining our chastity. Oh, but this is another generation altogether, and another spirit that knows not the terror of sin,
51:04 -  nor the holiness of a living God. I said, pray this, God forgive me, although I may not subjectively feel it, I know that if you're a holy God, I have offended against you again and again, and I don't understand all this that Jesus did on the cross. It sounds to me so much like
51:24 -  gobbledygook, but whatever it is, I receive the atonement that he provided in his suffering and death. And I ask you in the way that you've worked it, that that detergent wash me of my own defilement and stain. And now I just invite you to come into my heart and life and be my own Messiah,
51:48 -  my Lord and my God. I thank you for hearing me because I've called upon you according to your word in Jesus name. That's the way the meeting ended, and people left and a small number came up, and among the first one was a girl with a dark face and dark eyes. I took one look at that face
52:05 -  and those eyes, I knew she had just passed from death unto life. Before she could speak to me, I said to her, say something has happened to you, hasn't it? Yes, she said with a trembling voice, you said that we couldn't pray art, but when you prayed aloud, she said, I prayed under my breath.
52:22 -  And something happened, the very same thing that happened to me 10 years ago, cynic, arrogant, contemptuous, modern man, not able to pronounce the name Jesus Christ, so much was it a bone in my throat. But I'll tell you in the depths of my own brokenness,
52:41 -  I fell to my knees in a little chapel in Jerusalem, the holy city of God, and called upon that name that I was never able to pronounce in the most awkward, choked, spruttering thing that had ever come out of my articulate mouth, and God received it. Something went out of my life that was angry
53:01 -  and bitter and filthy, and something that came in that was pure and holy, the Ruach HaKodesh, I've been becoming increasingly Jewish from that day forth. Precious children, I appeal to you, by whatever name you call yourself, you've been a good Methodist,
53:21 -  good Presbyterian, good Jew, you've been ethical, moral, but you've never availed yourself of the cross of Christ Jesus. Never saw your need. Will you believe that a God who saw the need to take unnumbered thousands of lambs and beasts and throw them in their heaving terror on their
53:45 -  side and strap them and heave them up over altars and cut their throats and burn their flesh to prefigure the coming of one eternal lamb of God, understood far better than we, the enormity of sin and its eternal consequence? Will you believe tonight and receive by faith that eternal lamb
54:06 -  of God and his work have your sins washed away? There's not a righteous man upon the earth that sinneth not and doeth good. All we, like sheep, have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. We've all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. The wages of sin is death,
54:26 -  but the gift of God is Yeshua HaMashiach, Jesus the Christ for eternal life. Bow your heads with me now, will you? Lord God, we dare even to stand against human conventions because this is a matter of life and death
54:49 -  and not an issue of niceties and scruples. We're not playing games and you didn't call us here to bat our lips. You didn't press these things on my own heart and spirit just to provide an evening entertainment. There's an issue here that's got to do with life and with death.
55:08 -  And I just ask every soul in this room, look deep, open your heart, see what's been raised up for your consideration tonight. However my performance may be lacking, I believe with all my heart you'll not be able to stand
55:30 -  before God with excuse that you've not heard his essential gospel or that you've lacked opportunity to respond. Precious God, bless these children. May your holy hand rest upon them. May they be filled with all the fullness of the Holy Ghost. May they speak with boldness
55:49 -  with boldness the gospel of Yeshua haMashiach, that thing which is a calculated offense in the world but that word only which saves men out of death. May they go tonight inspired and encouraged to proclaim this gospel as messengers of yours wheresoever you shall bring them by the working
56:10 -  of your glorious spirit to the saving of many lives. In Yeshua's name we ask it. Amen. you