Judgement 2 of 2

00:00 -  want to be spared. They cannot bring themselves to a severity of judgment because they themselves deserve it. There's a certain avoidance for another because you yourself are implicated in some area in your personal life. You can only judge
00:19 -  righteous judgment if your own sins have been rightly judged and that's why judgment must begin in the house of God. We cannot call others to a right repentance for sin if there's compromise in our own house. So what I'm saying here
00:39 -  is that even if society fails to judge rightly, what would be the effect of those now that are disdainful for their own lives? You know there are men that don't give a rap. Kids that shoot their parents in their beds with shotguns
00:58 -  because they couldn't get the key to the car. Or they were told to get off the phone. You're talking too long. I mean the most picky, petty little statements that become an offense and the kid, the teenage kid, or the puberty does not
01:17 -  hesitate to blow their brains out while they're asleep with a shotgun. It's happening every day. What about men that go into the post office and shoot up the works or into a hamburger stand and shoot every cotton-picking soul in that
01:30 -  place because they want to ventilate an anger or a frustration against the world that has not treated them as they think they should have been treated. We've never seen such a rash of mass violence. Why? Because there's no fear about their
01:48 -  own lives. Okay, so you know what they do when they finally get trapped and the riot squad comes with their bulletproof vest and they got the guy cornered? He shoots himself. He's had a ball right till that moment, an orgy of bloodshed,
02:03 -  and so he takes his own life. How can he do it with such mindlessness? Because he does not believe that there's anything beyond that life. He has no fear of standing before the judge eternally. That's how we need rightly to interpret
02:20 -  mass violence and it's a statement that needs to be laid at the door of the church. That's ironic, isn't it? Unjustly treated. It's ironic. Certainly it is virtually impossible to conceive of
02:52 -  the ministries of Jesus and Paul as cogent, let alone powerful, except for the framework of impending judgment from which the invitation to repentance was issued. Paul's frequent reiteration of a day of wrath punctuates or underlines
03:06 -  his nearly every death discourse. Knowing the terror of God, he said, I persuade men. 2nd Corinthians 5, 10 and 11. Let's take a look at that. We've quoted that many times, but there are two verses together, and it's interesting what
03:30 -  precedes the statement about knowing therefore the terror of the Lord we persuade men. Verse 10, that was verse 11, 2nd Corinthians 5, and this is deep in the consciousness of Paul's apostolic mindset. Central to his whole viewing of
03:51 -  everything is verse 10, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ that everyone may receive the things done in his body according to that he has done, whether it be good or bad. Knowing therefore, the therefore
04:10 -  points back to the verse we've just read, the terror of the Lord we persuade men. Underline the word must, for we must know if, ands, or buts, no exclusions, because you did good deeds, or philanthropies, or bought Israel bonds, or donated
04:34 -  millions of dollars for a Holocaust museum. We must all. I've just reminded a flicker of things, another episode out of my life. I forgot what the great hotel magnet in San Francisco, maybe somebody knows that name, a Jewish philanthropist,
04:50 -  and someone arranged for me to see him. I went into his office, mahogany desks and the wall paneling, I mean it was posh, thick carpeting, and this resplendent man with his three-piece suit and the picture of self-assurance and success,
05:11 -  and all over the walls were photographs of his philanthropies, many to Christian organizations, Catholic churches, charities, and things like that, and he knew I was some kind of a Christian, didn't know what, I was Jewish, and the
05:27 -  first thing he did was to impress me with all of his philanthropy, and he's done this, and this, and this, and this, and this. I can't remember how the Lord said it, but the statement was, it will not save you from the wrath of God to
05:41 -  come, and I don't know what the effect was. I didn't last long in his office. He said, now what are you really here for? What can I do for you? Like I know you're required to say those things, but let me give you a check for your
05:59 -  ministry. See what he wanted? Another brush off, but I refused even to suggest anything like that, but just to leave him with the statement that the wrath of God abides upon him. He who hath the Son hath life, and he who hath not the
06:18 -  Son hath not life, and the wrath of God abides upon him. God is not impressed with your philanthropists. He cannot be bought. There's a righteous judge, and everything that we have done, both good and bad, we are accountable at the
06:36 -  judgment seat of Christ that everyone, includes this hotel magnet and great philanthropists, may receive the things done in their bodies. The conviction evidently so burned in him as to turn his hearers to God from
07:00 -  idols, and to wait for the Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, that is Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come. You can read this continually in every letter of Paul. The frequent reiteration of the eschatological
07:16 -  climax of the age, which he saw as imminent, not eminent, imminent begins with an I, not an E. A famous man may be eminent, well-known, but something that is imminent is at the door, and soon to be experienced. The church of 2,000 years
07:35 -  ago that was really the church, and the glorious church, and the powerful church, and the church that shook the world upside down, was the church that believed that the judgment of God was at hand. The church of today, 2,000 years later,
07:51 -  closer to the day of the Lord than what they expected, does not have this in their consciousness. It's a church that's weak, feeble, depleted, ineffectual in its message, has not touched the Jewish community, because this cornerstone, this
08:09 -  key of the wrath to come is absent from its mentality. Unquestionably, the weaker evangelism of our day and its more meager result is in exact proportion to the forfeiting of that apostolic consciousness of a judgment to come. To
08:27 -  void the framework of judgment and eternity is to grossly sentimentalize the lavish act of the repentant woman who washed the feet of Jesus with her tears and poured out upon him an expensive ointment. His own evaluation of
08:40 -  that act needs to be ponded anew. If this consciousness, as I have argued, is absent from the church, what shall we expect in the world? Not only has the church forfeited this perception of causality in time and history, but it has
08:56 -  been won over by the world to interpret all events laterally, that is sociologically, politically, and humanly. God's hand is not seen in the calamities of nations nor of institutions, nor is mankind invited to consider God either
09:15 -  for explanation nor relief from their distress. Is every mishap or adversity to be so interpreted? I mean, is everything a judgment? Perhaps not, but it would be wise, I would suggest, to make it a first consideration until one is satisfied
09:33 -  that God is not attempting to speak to us or instruct us by it. Do you get that? It may not be that everything is judgment, but it would do us well to make that our first point of inquiry. First to ask, indeed, if it's not intended as judgment,
09:48 -  and having found a peace in it and a satisfaction in that, then we can consider it as accident or some other inadvertent thing. Not as a last consideration, a first consideration. In other words, to be judgment-minded.
10:04 -  Another theologian writes, God, if he be God at all, is there in present-day cultural life as fully as he was in that of the Hebrew people or that of the Church in the earlier centuries. If he's the same yesterday, today, or forever, if he
10:25 -  was there in the times of judgment for Israel, then he's the same God who's present now and can judge now. Discernment is a crucial function in interpreting and relating the meaning and eternal seriousness to
10:40 -  our own generation. It is an act that must be informed and guided by critical inquiry and theory by as much understanding, this is a quotation, of the forces at work as in our present as social inquiry can produce. But on the
10:58 -  other, it is an act that must discern the historical situation and all its particularity in order to determine what our kairos is, K-A-I-R-O-S, the Greek word for time. What is the meaning of this hour? Is going to take of the Church a
11:14 -  critical examination? Is this a judgment? What does it mean? Are these things merely happenstance? What does AIDS represent? Nothing has caused such a violent anger against the Church as even to suggest it is the consequence of sin. Men
11:32 -  in San Francisco pastors who will take a public stand like that to equate AIDS as the penalty for perversion and sin, put their very life in jeopardy. Their homes and cars being blown up and the tremendous anger and wrath of that
11:49 -  homosexual community to come against them who refused to see it as such. Some of those people are going to churches. There's a homosexual church that is predicated on the basis that God loves them too. There's not even a smidgen of
12:05 -  suggestion that their AIDS is in any way a statement of God's judgment. So what this writer is saying here is the Church has an obligation to inquire, to examine, to weigh, to assess, to see things in the context of judgments that we might
12:20 -  determine what the time is. And that is a judgment that no amount of social science can produce. You can't expect this in the world. You're not going to get it from Newsweek and crime magazine writers. In this situation we
12:35 -  are therefore in a new wave without the law and called each according to his capacity to the difficult role of profit. It's interesting that this theologian even considered somewhat liberal recognizes that for the church to function this way
12:52 -  is for church to be prophetic. And that it's a difficult role of profit in precisely this sense namely of discerning what in our concrete situation because of its place in the in history the Word of God has to say to us
13:11 -  what is the prophetic task of the church to rightly interpret what is taking place in the historical context of the nations in the light of the Word of God and to make it known not only to those who call themselves Christian but to the nation
13:27 -  itself. Can you believe for such a church that has come to that kind of prophetic maturity able to assess, to weigh, to critique, and to understand the events in the light of Scripture and to warn the nation of the meaning of its own
13:45 -  events, its own past, and its own future. I wonder if that kind of a church will continue to get tax exemption and other benefits. This is the very exercise I would submit that fits the church for its eternal destiny. The church that can
14:03 -  do that in time is being fitted for its eternal ruling and reigning with them. For it's the operation of that critical assessment that's what judging means, to judge. Where Paul said, don't you know you're going to judge nations?
14:19 -  That you're going to judge angels? Don't you know that the saints shall judge the world? And other scriptures attest to a ruling and reigning with Christ. But how shall the church be fitted for such a function eternally when we are dulled to
14:33 -  God's present judgments and in fact are unwilling ourselves to perform them in the church and to give over a brother's flesh for them for its destruction that his soul or his spirit might be saved in that day. I think some in the course of
14:54 -  these weeks I mentioned the one time in Venezuela's history where we did that. And it's a time I will never forget. Holy, holy, holy. What took place in the three hours of that judicial dealing with a brother who would not be warned, who
15:13 -  would not be instructed. We came to him with as one brother to another then we brought it another brother and another and we brought him before the whole church. Still he was unwilling to repent or be corrected and we wait and agonized
15:25 -  and hoped until finally there was no other alternative but to give his flesh over for destruction. What a solemn responsibility. God gives us that authority but you don't do it lightly and I'll never forget the holiness, the
15:45 -  seriousness of a people considering this with this brother standing in our midst giving him every opportunity to speak in his own behalf to hear every evidence through and somehow that we could be deterred from such an action of this
15:59 -  ultimate kind until finally having exhausted everything it was pronounced. I heard housewives speaking with such a wisdom in God. Ordinary saints raised to such a transcendent place in God because of the gravity of what was being
16:17 -  considered. It was a breakthrough into another realm of being as church that I had never before seen and it came forth in the context of judgment. Churches are being emasculated and our people are being stupefied and sitting like passive
16:35 -  dummies hearing biblical messages but nothing is required of them of a kind that compels them to shift gears and come themselves into a place of responsibility of such frightening consequence for time and eternity as
16:50 -  when they're required to bring judgment. We never went back again to any lesser place. It was like being stretched as was said last night over the dead sun. When you're stretched out you're not going to stretch back. When you when you are
17:06 -  stretched in the making of judgment you're not coming back to tea time. Something has changed qualitatively and it's changed forever and the next morning when that brother left we were in our prayer place in Mon Broga's trailer and
17:20 -  out the window we saw him with like a satchel over his shoulder walking down a dusty road and instead of some kind of saccharine sentimentality maybe we were too harsh no shouldn't have it it was just a rejoice something rose up
17:35 -  out of our spirits there was such a holy rejoicing in God that we had purged out the leaven from the lump lest the whole lump be corrupted and God's presence was so with us because we had performed righteous judgment so I'm arguing you
17:55 -  have a jealousy for the church it'll never be church until we are again in the context where it's a church that judges its own how then shall it evaluate the world or the nation if it does not evaluate itself and what a great
18:12 -  embarrassment and a shame and a scandal that the most searching critiques on the failure and the collapse and sin of the church about Jimmy Swaggart and Jimmy Baker had to come from secular journalists and that when the church
18:26 -  itself was required to judge those men it was a flop and a fiasco what to lay to lay down the ministries for three months big deal and that he could browbeat the whole denomination and say hey you better go easy with me aren't
18:44 -  you forgetting that I contribute 14 million dollars a year to your coffers for world missions out of the income that my world ministry up and don't think they didn't take it into consideration they could not bring the
18:59 -  severity of God to bear in fact it raises the whole question if I could add maybe even shut the tape recorder that both men were out of the assemblies of God is that happenstance or is there something rotten in Denmark is there
19:15 -  some inherent weakness in the church some inability to judge there's some kind of an environment is the whole church itself implicated in the Jimmy Swaggart and the Jimmy Bakers whose lifestyle we have made possible by our
19:29 -  continuing giving to them because we love the whole giddy glitzy star thing that they have elaborated and and secretly hope that one day we might be taken up into such a kind of thing how many of us saw that in the in the
19:46 -  judgment and the shame that came upon them was God's statement about an entire church its softness is its indulgence its celebration of stars it's allowing them lifestyles that we ourselves can't enjoy but we sure salivate
20:00 -  contemplating theirs and hoping maybe one day we might I've got a message on that about Jimmy Swaggart as an indictment of the of the entire church sacrifices for sin he can feel gently with the ignorant and his guide and then
20:37 -  he himself also said weakness and because of it is obligated to offer sacrifices for sin and for the people to also for himself well as scripture says if we would judge ourselves we cannot be judged after one
20:54 -  I don't think that we're going to judge righteous judgments unless we have fully grasped our own eternal calling if we ourselves think that the end of this life is its termination and have only a vague and misty contemplation of being
21:20 -  we are missing the whole point we do not see this life as preparation for that that that life is essentially a call of ruling and reigning which is to say judging and if we'll not judge in this life because it's hard how does it feel
21:37 -  your guts are called for to perform something like that and to condemn a brother and give his flesh over for destruction and if we cannot bring ourselves to judging this is more than a mental thing it's inflicting something
21:53 -  it's bringing a punishment to the consequence how shall we be fitted for our eternal role so we've got to see this in the context of eternity revelations 20 gives us a glimpse of this verse 4 and I saw a thrones and
22:10 -  they that sat upon them and judgment was given unto them and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years blessed and holy verse 6 is he that hath part in the first resurrection they shall be priests of God in Christ and
22:35 -  shall reign with him a thousand years it's not everybody's destiny for those who will rule and reign it's a remnants destiny who have not spurned nor avoided the requirements of judgment in this life
23:05 -  because his hope was that all who believe would be part of that and they may not be numerically many they'll be the believing remnant but to be a believing remnant is to be a judging remnant to have an attitude toward
23:23 -  judgment that is akin to God's and if we'd and if we like secular judges who cannot judge it's because there's a compromise in our own life that we're shielding and protecting and we want to be lenient with others because secretly
23:39 -  and unconsciously we want others to be lenient with us only those vessels that are really in the righteousness of God will have not a hidden and a secret thing can judge righteous judgment and the fact that we're called to it is an
23:53 -  incentive to be in that condition the greater pity is that we ourselves do not fear and permit or bring into the very sanctuary of God that which is abomination to him we need to be sobered
24:11 -  and remembering that judgment begins in the house of God and Paul's exhortation to the church that every one of us shall give account of himself to God what was address the philosophical pagans on Mars Hill needs now to be addressed to the
24:24 -  church itself which has drifted from the factuality of the resurrection as well as the eminence of judgment as the statement that I referred to before and the times of this ignorance God winked but now commands all men everywhere to
24:38 -  repent for he has appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he has ordained whereof he has given assurance unto all men in that he has raised him from the dead not a colossal spontaneous
24:53 -  statement given on the spot that links repentance with judgment with resurrection all summed up in the phrase in that day and spoken to pagans who didn't go to Bible school as if they have as much obligation to know it and
25:11 -  to hear it as anyone who has a biblical orientation because these are the group facts of life this is reality the world may have eclipsed it the world may have sold it down the river sublimated it hidden it but Paul in Mars Hill in the
25:31 -  one opportunity that he has will not be another goes right to the jugular vein and speaks the foundation of all reality God will judge he has appointed a day capital D the day of the Lord and the one who will be judging is the one whom
25:46 -  he has raised from the dead therefore repent God has went in times past but he commands now all men everywhere to repent if that now was 2,000 years ago what what should be said now in this now what more excruciating moment than to
26:04 -  stand before the judge a judge who bears the wounds that he himself suffered in judgment that eternally testify to the solemnity of sin how in that moment will our sins be made exceedingly sinful too late to heed the repeated warnings too
26:21 -  late to be reminded that the very aspects of the gospel which the modern mind rejects as alien primitive or unnecessary are actually the most essential aspects that's my final statement standing before the judge in
26:36 -  that day and that judge bears wounds and those wounds are the statement that he himself has suffered judgment and becoming sinful all men and therefore we can know that the judgment that comes from him is a judgment in which there's
26:53 -  no argument no controversy no discussion that somehow there that will be registered on the dullest consciousness of the soul that will this is the judge there's no second hearing there's no time offer no
27:11 -  previous offenses there's no mediating here it is and the word that comes is final and irrevocable fearful to stand before that judge in that day and we need to pray that that fear enters our souls knowing the terror of God we
27:32 -  persuade to tell the Jewish community that its recent Holocaust and all of its previous historic calamities with a statement of God's judgment for us is the most colossal offense to their understanding they will rise up in such
28:01 -  an indignation and demonstrate in that very indignation the truth of the statement the world doesn't want to be instructed but if they'll not there'll be another Holocaust in which the fire shall not be quenched and unless we
28:20 -  believe that will not tell them about their past and we have not told them here's some statements of Christian theologians about the Holocaust and Israel the Holocaust is revealed to Christians that Jews have maintained
28:48 -  their steadfastness to God's covenant in this triumphalist claims that the church has replaced Israel the church views itself as the chosen vehicle for God's work in the world but it must be remembered however that the Jews died
29:01 -  in the Nazi final solution because they had been faithful to the same covenant which Christianity claimed to have appropriated as its own it was pilots decision alone to execute a free Jesus it is noteworthy that none of the other
29:19 -  gospel writers but Matthew include the cry of the crowd in their accounts of the crucifixion this cry has been used by the church to explain Jewish suffering that is to say for their sin of the crucifixion of Jesus what is this
29:30 -  theologian saying there's only one gospel that mentions that so why do you stake everything on one statement in one gospel as if to implicate Jewry in the sin of the death of Jesus and that what they suffered in their historic
29:45 -  calamities is a consequence after all it's only been mentioned once how would you answer that you know I know how would you answer that because okay how many times that God has to repeat himself one statement is enough there's only one
30:07 -  place in the Old Testament guy says the jush he has but to speak once and one of our sinful propensities that have come up in these weeks that though God has said it we don't really believe it and will not act on it until he verifies his
30:21 -  own word what does that say about us no wonder we can't speak to them with the absoluteness that they need to hear or they will perish eternally I've gotten all these statements out of my readings or hearing actual theologians who have
30:39 -  muted the whole issue of the Holocaust because they can't bring themselves to see it as judgment faith in God's control of human history is not valid after the Holocaust this event provided ample evidence that God will not
30:55 -  intervene in the affairs of history and man is some kind of a machine fashion despite the evil will not take the side of the innocent against the forces of darkness miracles become untenable after Auschwitz God is not gone he's not there
31:14 -  he's not intervened he's not the God that we thought he is when we don't accept something as judgment we are led inevitably to another kind of reasoning and another kind of speculation that will finally crucify him afresh it will
31:31 -  constitute a final and utter rejection of God because we're unable or unwilling to consider his judgments as judgment is it defensible to charge that we can affirm about God as a result of what has happened in history Christianity is
31:54 -  prepared to accept direction from the concrete event I'm sorry about that doesn't make the point that I wanted to express the age-old formula in due to due to the Deuteronomic formula that evil is punished and good is rewarded
32:08 -  is both inappropriate and insensitive after the Holocaust you can't say that anymore that men suffer for their sin and what has taken place in history is the consequence of it it's inappropriate and insensitive to say that after the
32:24 -  Holocaust the Holocaust is a tremendous of such a kind that to attribute it to the sins of men is an indefensible statement if the Messiah has come why is the world so evil what moral advance was made by
32:44 -  the destruction of one Jew in the first century the tale of the Holocaust could not be redeemed by any past event no matter how holy I hope you can hear this so I'm glad it's on tape utterly sacrilegious utterly blasphemous utterly
33:00 -  Christ denying it actually repudiates the first Advent and the crucifixion the death and resurrection of Jesus as being only an event because the terror of the Holocaust cannot be redeemed by it where was the God and the
33:17 -  Messiah that had come if the world is still evil and so evil as to have seen a Holocaust the innocent were allowed to perish by the thousands day by day day by day why then do we continue to hope for God to step in in time and convert
33:34 -  all evil that occurred throughout the centuries to goodness and to glory to abolish the sanctity of human freedom is to render human history and human why do we continue to hope for God to step in if he didn't step in in the
33:49 -  Holocaust actually step in at any future time so what are you talking about the day of the Lord when God will come he didn't come then why should we expect it will come now I tell you dear Saints Christology the doctrine of God the most
34:05 -  foundational truths of the faith are suffering such an enormous attack the cost of this one thing the inability of the church or its unwillingness to consider the magnitude of suffering that came with the Holocaust as being
34:22 -  judgment for sin therefore God himself is made suspect something must be wrong with him in the light of the revelation of the Holocaust it should be apparent to Christians that there is no legitimate mission to the Jews rather the
34:41 -  task of the church today is to affirm the Christian faith while simultaneously maintaining the integrity and validity of the Jewish people this task constitutes the essential challenge for post-holocaust Christianity what's the
34:55 -  significance of that it's illegitimate to pursue the gospel to Jews since the Holocaust we have no legitimate mission to the Jews and that raises the question that in fact we have a legitimate mission to the Greeks because if the
35:14 -  Jews have an integrity that needs to be maintained and recognized shouldn't that be true also for Hinduism and Buddhism and other isms where do we come to this imperialistic Christo centrism I heard one theologian call it a fascia how do
35:33 -  we say it a fascism a Christian fascism that insists that it is the only way to God and all of these weakenings that that challenge the mission of the church the evangelism of the church and the word of God to the church about the Jews
35:54 -  all flow out of one thing again the failure to be able to consider the Holocaust as judgment can a theology of a responsive and saving God survive the test of the Holocaust another theologian asks not just about saving God for Jews
36:13 -  but a saving God for anyone where is the Christ who saves theologian Gregory Baum a Catholic theologian finds he must reject the traditional concept of providence omniscience and God could not be all-knowing and he cannot be all
36:32 -  powerful because he allowed this evil to take place so therefore we need to review our understanding of God Roy Eckhart writes ultimate responsibility for evil in the world is God's listen to this for the simple reason that it is he
36:50 -  who created the world and is he who permits monstrous suffering to take place because Auschwitz happened God's ability and desire to alter conditions resulting in human suffering may best be considered as limited or restrained God
37:06 -  is no longer God he's powerless he cannot act it is he who permits monster suffering to take place after all he's the author of reality and that it took place in the reality that he created makes him to bring that remarkable that
37:22 -  men cannot bring themselves to believe that men can be capable of a sin historic with their fathers that's being judged so in the ability inability to believe that they can really believe that God is at fault he's the sinner because he
37:38 -  created reality and look what happened the Holocaust took place in it so something must be defective to the very foundation of what he has created which is a defect in God he's the same thinking that you have a positive
37:55 -  your parents that's good yeah so we'll all absolve the responsibility and anything goes you're not they're not criminals they're sick and we invent terms like chemical dependency what are some of the absurdities of them abuse
38:14 -  chemical abuse what did they do the chemicals beat you up what you were some innocent victim and the chemical chemicals jumped you listen to the terminology listen to the euphemisms listen to the destruction of language
38:29 -  and no longer has meaning because men will acknowledge knowledge sin and see the consequence of it as judgment you're a victim it abused you so the solution then is knowledge training learning schools drying out but never a statement
38:49 -  about sin and this culpability responsibility shame confession repentance and turning that's in our world and especially in the Christian world has that whole mentality come to prevail even in the church this issue of
39:05 -  judgment saints at the heart of everything so let's let's pray I don't know how to pray Reggie
39:28 -  great couple days immediately there your prayers and your covenant confession it has to do with the issue of
39:58 -  judgment has not been with the kind of commitment to this reality that would have been mine if I have enjoyed the revelation of it I'm seeing it so vaguely I desire for a full apprehension of it
40:15 -  because I know my ability to exercise judgment in my own home has curved my ability to exercise judgment in the Church of God it's only been a protection of the Lord to not release me into a place of responsibility while
40:28 -  these things were still outstanding and unresolved my own life at home having to with judgment I want by the grace of God to imbibe and apprehend this thing this phenomena that I might be spared with the Lord's judgment would be turned away
40:44 -  because I feel much in the way of judgment that this is not rectified and healed already things have been stripped from me a lot of great many things to transpire the last couple years that have been nothing short of judgment and
41:00 -  my ambition is not for those things to be restored but only that further damage would not be incurred and I know this also there's been a tendency in me in the name of mercy to spare a gag in my children with my wife and in other
41:19 -  relationships that's not hoping somehow presuming that if I'm extremely merciful I'll obtain a greater mercy and there's truth to that I don't know just how to resolve the tension between that and the the zeal of the Lord which is so
41:34 -  wonderfully expressed here these days in parts addresses about judgment that God would give me that seal for his righteousness and his glory I'm too I've been too given to spare a gag both of myself and my family so I really ask for
41:52 -  prayer of the church to ease this hidden hidden thing. Thank you precious God. We remember how you selected one tribe out of twelve to be a priestly tribe. Those who are on the Lord's side and would strap on their swords and go in and out
42:16 -  of the camp and let each man kill his friend, his neighbor, his own flesh and blood. Lord there's a divine ruthlessness against sin that is at the heart of the whole priestly call and if we are not priestly how then are we apostolic? How
42:40 -  then are we prophetic? If we still defer to flesh, to sentiment, to the sparing of ourselves. You've called us to judge righteous judgment Lord and we tremble. Grant us my God a priestly spirit that will put the sword on our side and go in
43:02 -  and out and slay. How is a priest a priest who will not draw blood? Save us from phonying it up my God and having the appearance of priest and loving the garments and the nomenclature
43:24 -  and the trappings and having no stomach for the blood. Gracious God. Lord if anyone's victim, we are victim of a soft and sappy Christendom that has not wanted to consider these things Lord, that goes to its skiing retreats and its
43:50 -  pleasure in the midst of the ruins that are the statement of your judgment for erring nations and even now my God the judgments are falling around our ears everywhere and we go on with a life as usual, pleasure as usual statement that
44:13 -  mocks you and says that it's not judgment. Help us Lord we pray. This is in your heart this morning my God and we ask that by your grace will come into our hearts not as a category but as a foundation.
44:44 -  Quick to confess that, that same realization will hit me and I see and confess in my fashion Lord and that same scene would be corporate you know, part of this whole Thank you Lord for the work you've done in spite of the fact that I can't see it. Mother I pray that you wouldn't have a way in my life with regards to this judgment. Forgive me Lord for being a dull of hearing and not able to see the obvious around me. I ask for forgiveness.
45:33 -  Well we've talked about the day of your coming as though it were close by and yet convicted that we don't act that way Lord. I see that we are callous to the pride of the world around us Lord and to our own families and to the church Lord and to in every way Lord we just demonstrate that everything that you've said is not true and we said we want to be authentic people. Authentic people would be ones who demonstrate that they're concerned, they have that fear that makes them want to persuade men to come to the judgment now rather than to wait for the judgment that must come. Give us hearts Lord that understand that and see that in a way that we haven't been able to see it before. It comes with a clarity that sears us Lord and separates us from the way that we've been in the past.
46:28 -  That your life might flow forth Lord and the world might be prepared to be just as you said Lord in days that there can be a remnant that say that the Israelites will be made jealous Lord by the church that demonstrates that they believe the judgments of God Lord and can therefore have them accept the fact that they have been judged and have been judged for ever since their beginnings Lord. And then turn to you in repentance. Praise you Lord Jesus. Lord remove false security.
47:05 -  Yes. Remove the veil Lord the covering Lord of security. My God.
47:14 -  Precious. Lord I just pray that we all examine our hearts Lord and any thought that exalts itself above you Lord. Anything we might have against the brother of the Lord to deal with it. Pray Father God that we just prepare ourselves Lord in repentance of heart so that we might receive the precious impartation of your life into us Lord that we be without guile.
47:48 -  That we be pure and open before you and before our brothers Lord. Show us Lord God those things that are hindering us right now from entering in. Thank you Lord.
48:05 -  Thank you Lord for truth Lord. So we have a heart for truth. And Lord we see the enemy Lord in his schemes to try to obstruct the work that you want to do Lord.
48:19 -  Bring whatever lie forth Lord that we might deal with it openly. Expose it Lord for what it is. Thank you Jesus for you are truth and you are life.
48:34 -  And that's our hunger and desire to live in truth and to live in your life. Help us to be those king vessels before you that we can be a holy blames the spotless bride prepared for you Lord. Jesus.
48:49 -  Thank you Lord. Bring these precious spirits out of hiding Lord God. Expose them Lord God.
48:56 -  Bring them out where they can be slain in the open Lord. Jesus. Thank you Lord.
49:02 -  Save us from being reluctant acknowledges of your judgments in some kind of way of begrudging that has to admit that yeah okay. But lovers of judgment. Lovers who delight in your judgments who understand the divine wisdom in them and the sanctifying healing power of them.
49:20 -  The redemptive meaning of them Lord. And that it reveals you so deeply and so fully that we love when your judgments are injured. For them the world learns righteousness.
49:33 -  Oh Lord we thank you that you're so unsparing of God. We thank you you're not a soft touch like us. We thank you my God that your love for your creation and for us is of such a kind that you do not spare.
49:47 -  And we're grateful for such a good Lord if anything reveals you. It's this. And you revealed yourself at the cross in the judgment which you visited upon your son in our stead.
50:00 -  And Lord we ask for a fresh appropriation of that revealing. My God that when we contemplate that battered body and those wounds. That we will see the exceeding sinfulness of sin.
50:14 -  And what is required to judge it. It'll save us from hanky panky. It'll save us my God from fall.
50:22 -  It'll save us from cutting corners and taking liberties. It'll save us from putting ourselves on the path by which the shame and falling of other ministers will be our experience also. Lord may we fear judgment.
50:36 -  May we hate evil and sin. Come precious God restore the foundations of the church and the foundations of the faith. By men who themselves embody them.
50:50 -  And it's not for us a head trip but a piece of knowledge that has been inserted as in a computer. Put it into our gut my God with trembling we pray. Thank you.
51:02 -  Merciful God. So give us Father for looking to briefly explanations for the calamities that have fallen on us. Remind us Father to search out your heart to see if these calamities are because of sin in our lives.
51:17 -  We look to you to see if they are your judgment. Teach us Father give us that heart, that spirit that does love your judgment. That are just and true.
51:29 -  Amen. Thank you. Father thank you for the beginning of Revelation and Reggie.
51:36 -  I pray that we are full on burrowing in and a full uncovering of everything. And if he needs to rise for days and days and days like Art mentioned with steady preaching. If he needs to be in this for the full measure to receive the full measure of Revelation.
51:52 -  I pray that we bear with him and put out our hearts also to bear with him in the misery that will bring forth the full the full deliverance. Good yes amen.
52:05 -  Thank you. Thank you my God. Yes may we see that again.
52:09 -  Thank you my God. People clutching the pillars and posts of buildings. Let the floor open and swallow them into the eternal conflagration.
52:17 -  Bring that fear again Lord. Save us from being a soft touch that wants to give a happy ending to every sermon. And send people home happy.
52:26 -  Give us our love for you my God that will allow us to send them home agitated. Seeking, striving, questioning, writhing. However long that when the breakthrough comes it comes in truth and reality.
52:38 -  In a full and true conversion my God that touches whole communities. Oh my God we have been cheated of so much. Everything is so shallow, so instant, so queasy.
52:49 -  My God because we have missed this. Oh precious God we store our respect for it. May our willingness to suffer the chagrin of men.
52:59 -  And the offense that we dare raise such subjects before them that are troubling. Art thou he who troubleth Israel? May we say yes.
53:08 -  Hallelujah and gladly for Christ's sake. And also Father we want to be scared the grief that goes with the brother that's in the travail of knowing the truth. We want to be scared of that.
53:21 -  We just want to be over in a minute or a day and so we can all go on a happy way. But Lord we need to bear one another's burdens with it until they're released. Yes Lord.
53:31 -  Bless the business Lord that we're willing to follow in it. That there might be a cleansing of righteousness eternally. Thank you Lord.
53:44 -  That's priestly. Thank you my God. We're sated with blood.
53:48 -  Full of God. Fingernails tickle us. Dip in blood where there's no sacrifice.
53:54 -  There's no atonement. There's no release of the glory of God. Forgive us for our fanciful notions of what we thought priestly meant.
54:04 -  What we thought prophetic meant. My God we're romantics. We're dreamers.
54:09 -  We're deceived. Shake us my God. Shake us Lord.
54:14 -  And bring us to full wakefulness. Father thank you that your judgments are beginning and being fulfilled in your house. And even the leadership that is presumed upon your mercy and your love and your grace.
54:31 -  The judgment that fell and we've seen and all of us have been touched by Lord. Mighty God it was your love. It was your love for us that judged sin in the earth at the cross Lord.
54:46 -  And Lord today bring the full measure of the weight of what you did into our lives. And of what you've done we can only come into that holy place by your blood Lord. You're righteous.
55:00 -  Thank you Lord. Your mercies are new every morning because your judgments are there every night. Thank you my God.
55:14 -  May we so appreciate your mercy because we so respect your judgment. Keep us from that cheap, glib, facile reference to mercy that is for us is not mercy but a mere verbalization. My God we want to enjoy you.
55:33 -  We want to appreciate you. We want to have the full benefit of your great benevolence has taught us. Which we will entirely miss if we go soft here.
55:44 -  Thank you my God for your judgment as much as you will see. Thank you Lord. That you're indivisible.
55:54 -  That the Lord our God is one. For though we walk in the flesh we do not war after the flesh. The weapons of our warfare are not carnal but mighty through God through the pulling down of strongholds.
56:07 -  Casting down imaginations in every high thing that exalted itself against the knowledge of God. And bringing in captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. And having in readiness to revenge all disobedience where our obedience is fulfilled.
56:23 -  My God. Our God is great. We love you.
56:29 -  Precious God. We have not known you as we would. That's true.
56:35 -  We have made a God of our own imagining. We're guilty Lord of idolatry. We have taken your name today.
56:45 -  Yes. Thank you. Thank you Lord.
56:57 -  Thank you for your judgment. Thank you Lord. My heart.
57:17 -  Thank you Jesus that your judgment is here on earth. As if to spare us from eternal judgment. For because we have not loved judgment, we have known judgment.
57:40 -  In many a way, or that might have been a burden. We are not for our folly Lord, our indulgence. Our pride, our selfishness, our sin.
57:54 -  Be very gentlest Lord. For your glory. Yes we stand in peril in this very hour.
58:05 -  Having heard and discussed these things. To rise from these tables. And go to our lunch time as if nothing had been spoken.
58:15 -  Nothing declared. Nothing said. Another class.
58:21 -  And we would be guilty in that my God of mocking you. As much as the church has by going about its pleasure. Going to its vacations and its ski places my God.
58:31 -  While the world is being shaken and staggering in its own blood. And the judgments that are coming. And we go on with lunch as usual.
58:41 -  And pleasure as usual. And Lord I ask that you not judge us. That there is a way that we can go from these tables.
58:49 -  To that table. That somehow will not lose. But mock what it is that has been spoken.
58:57 -  And Lord we know that we are at a critical moment. We can miss it right now for ourselves. By indulging in light conversation.
59:05 -  By being frivolous. By going about our business as if it's another day. Another statement.
59:14 -  Another teaching. God forbid. That we should mock you.
59:25 -  Teach us how to walk. Softly before you. Yes.
59:32 -  Granted we would believe my God. That this subject this morning was not some capricious choice of man. But this explicit requirement of yourself.
59:47 -  Help us to treat the subject with the reverence and seriousness it deserves. For you called us not only to acknowledge. But to execute righteous judgment.
01:00:02 -  Not only in this life. But in the ages to come. And we might be disqualified even today.
01:00:10 -  By a likeness that will cheat us of an eternal rule and reign. We dare not speak such a word here. Where something is introduced that makes a new requirement.
01:00:26 -  And we ask for a grace that will not allow us to listen. God. Thank you.
01:00:47 -  Oh, God. I love you so much. I love you too.
01:00:53 -  Well, I'd press one to think of a single chorus of our judgment. That's it. No one writes it.
01:01:19 -  Touch your mouth for your truth. So uncompromising, so sharp, my God. So clear, so unsparing.
01:01:30 -  Thanks God. Day of new beginnings, my God, we pray. Out of the demolition, my God, of this past.
01:01:38 -  Jesus name. Thank you. Thank you.
01:01:44 -  Hallelujah. His greatness to our God above. His work is perfect.
01:02:04 -  And all His ways are just. A God of faithfulness and without injustice.
01:02:18 -  Good and not righteous King.