Love Your Fellowman

00:00 -  It's our pleasure to introduce Arthur Katz, who is now directing evangelism in New York City for the American Board of Missions to the Jews, a great organization that has done great work to reach Jewish people with the message of the Messiah.
00:19 -  God bless you, Arthur Katz, if you share what God has put upon your heart. Let's welcome Arthur Katz. Would you stand with me, please, as we read out of the Word of God, the 31st chapter of
00:36 -  Jeremiah, starting with the 31st verse, Behold, the days come, sayeth the Lord, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers and the day that I took them by the hand to
00:53 -  bring them out of the land of Egypt, which my covenant they break. Although I was a husband unto them, sayeth the Lord, but this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel.
01:02 -  After those days, sayeth the Lord, I will put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their hearts, and will be their God, and they shall be my people. And they shall teach no more every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying,
01:17 -  Know the Lord. For they shall all know me, from the least of them unto the greatest of them, sayeth the Lord.
01:23 -  For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sins no more. Precious Holy God, bless us now by thy great Spirit, Lord. Have thy perfect way with thy people, through thy servants, purge our lips, O God, and sanction
01:41 -  the words that you would have spoken, and deeply touch thy people. Have thy way now, Lord. We bless thy name, and praise thee, and glorify thee, Jesus, because we ask it in thy great
01:53 -  name. Praise God. Please be seated.
01:56 -  I think if I had to find the words to express my single great burden as a Jewish man, it's might know God, that the knowledge of God might go forth over the face of the earth. As a former academician, high school teacher, university graduate, and laboring seven years
02:25 -  with students for knowledge, I know that there's knowledge in knowledge. There's a deep kind of knowing of God which can save the world. Unless we know God in spirit and in truth, we perish.
02:42 -  They shall all know me from the least of them unto the greatest of them. Sayeth the Lord. I staggered for thirty-four, thirty-five years without knowing God.
02:54 -  The first conviction of my young adolescent life as a Jewish young man growing up in New York City was that God was the most preposterous fiction that has ever been foisted upon a gullible mankind.
03:10 -  And I felt really emancipated that my life was to be freed at so early an age from notions as tired and as worn as that. I was an obedient Jewish boy in a certain sense and went to Hebrew school daily and
03:25 -  I was prepared for a single ceremony at the age of thirteen to oblige my mother that she might discharge her sense of Jewish obligation, but I saw no evidence for the living God anywhere. My attitude toward religion, both Jewish and Gentile, was a pox on both your houses.
03:47 -  I was a restless, sinking, hungry man. I could already sense, even before I had words to express it, that somehow the world had betrayed some deep design for our life, that we were not truly human, that we were just
04:05 -  batting at the air and going through all kinds of mechanical motions just only to happy to feed our faces and to compromise and merely sustain ourselves on a physical level, but that that was not life.
04:18 -  I didn't know what life was, but I knew that somehow it had to be abundant. It had to be deep. It had to be something total, and I began a career as a high school dropout at the age
04:31 -  of sixteen, seeking for life and that more abundantly. The name Jesus was among the most alien names that I knew. It was a curse word.
04:44 -  It was something that I had delegated only to the Gentiles. It had nothing to do with us as Jews. I knew of Jewish people who would cross the street rather than let the shadow of the cross
04:57 -  from a church fall upon them. They considered it a curse. And indeed, that's what the name Christianity and Christ and the cross has meant to Jewish
05:07 -  people for nineteen hundred years. It's been a curse of oppression, exploitation, forced conversions, exile, pillage, rape, looting, and death.
05:22 -  How is God going to reach a people who have been steeped in that kind of tragic history and let them to know that their Messiah has come and in him is life? It takes a miracle.
05:33 -  And that miracle was brought in my life six years ago when I was brought first to a place of death. I don't know why, but the word death is just ringing in my heart this morning.
05:46 -  Death, death, death. And I may be quoting the scripture, but I know that there's a place in there where Paul speaks of death working in me that life might be worked in you.
05:58 -  I came to God as an act of death, and every step in my life and God's since has been from death unto life, death working in me that life might go forth into the world. And Gentile Christian people occasionally come to me and say, Art, what is it about
06:17 -  you Jewish believers? You're so zealous. You're so completely caught up in the things of God.
06:24 -  Every Jew I know is either in full-time service or among the most active people in their congregations. What is it about you Jews? Well, I think one thing is that we're Jews, very peculiar people, and people who are out
06:38 -  of joint and out of place in the world. There's no one who knows that better than Jews who have succeeded at the world's game and are laden with honors of every description, and no one has to tell them that inside they're
06:51 -  convinced that they're hollow men. We've won every award that the world has in science and culture, in music and literature, and we know that we're empty men, and we're going to know it in this generation with such
07:05 -  severity and such distress that our collective cry is going to go up before God. In a certain sense, my sensibilities are jarred and famed by the great surveil and affliction that's coming upon the world and that I've had occasion to see even in Chicago, but on
07:22 -  the other hand I rejoice because I know that it's death which worketh life. And the same thing which took place in my life, and it's the only reason why my testimony is worth hearing, because it's a perfect reflection of how modern men, and Jews by the way, are
07:40 -  modern men par excellence. They have created the modern men, they've created the modern world, they've given this world its tone, its content, its ideologies, its attitudes, its culture, its lifestyle.
07:54 -  All you have to do is think of the great terminal thinkers, and in the 20th century you come up with names like Karl Marx and Sigmund Freud, and if you want to bring it right up to date, just throw in Jerry Rubin and A.B. Hoffman, and you've got Jewish men who are molders
08:09 -  and shakers of the world and of cities. It was just a couple of months ago when the four students were killed at Kent State that I was here at the University of Illinois at Chicago.
08:25 -  I had just come from the University of Illinois at Urbana where a curfew was called and there were the troops and the jeeps and it was like a wartime atmosphere, I could hardly believe that this was happening in an American city.
08:37 -  Our meetings had to be rescheduled because of the curfew and the strange atmosphere in which things were happening. Then we came to Chicago where a noon meeting had been called.
08:48 -  At the Chicago campus of the University of Illinois, and that day they closed the campus for fear of violence and destruction. So in a sense our rights to the amphitheater around which this whole university faculty
09:03 -  was denied us. And the Skype committee had itself circulated leaflets that day announcing that they were going to have a rally at that same amphitheater at noon.
09:19 -  So there's a conflict. And we sought out the Skype committee and although the school was closed, I don't know how this happened, a building had been opened to them, the architecture building, and they
09:30 -  were using the basement as their headquarters. And I walked into an atmosphere that I could hardly believe. It was like a scene out of Franz Kafka or some existentialist writer or some layout
09:41 -  TV script. And there were these students in every state of dress and undressed, stripped to the waist with their hair strewn over their faces and Indian-type bands around their foreheads and
09:51 -  arms. Some were wearing T-shirts with the letters MEDIC stamped out carrying first aid kits. It was a wartime atmosphere and it was an intoxicating, exuberant spirit that was possessing
10:06 -  these young people, that they themselves knew that they had power and that they had closed down this campus, they could well close down the establishment, they could well close down the world.
10:18 -  I tell you that's a heady and intoxicating spirit and you're not ready to handle such an intoxicating spirit at the age of 18, 19 or 20. And we told them that we had the legal right of that amphitheater, but we understood that
10:34 -  the school was closed, so all that we would desire of them is if they would give us five to ten minutes on their program. They hardly knew what we represented, but they put us down as speaker, our cats.
10:45 -  And I had to sit for two hours in the boiling sun listening to speeches of the kind which I myself was making seven and eight years ago as a Marxist left-winger and radical, and I tell you it was a crushing bore.
11:01 -  It was so utterly inane, it was so bereft of life, it was so ceremonial, and I was struck as I had never been struck before that what this radical cause is for these young people is a substitute religion.
11:19 -  But religion in its worst form, and if you sat in churches and heard ceremonial talking, and just maybe in parentheses if you sat at full gospel meetings and heard ceremonial talking, and there are other places where this goes on because the pure is always conmingled
11:38 -  with the other, you know what a tremendous weight that is on our spirit. It's only the spirit which brings us life. And I would see these guys make speeches one after another, full of slogans, full of smart,
11:51 -  clever things, full of heavy phrases of destroying the destroyers and down with the imperialists and everyone exulting in their slogans. And finally after two hours of this, they said, now we have a speaker, his name is,
12:06 -  and they looked on their seat, our cat, he's got some religious spirit. Are you here, cat? So I staggered out of the stand blinded by the sun, almost suffering sunstroke, my spirit
12:21 -  crushed, and I grabbed that microphone and I looked up into the stands and there were these bodies draped in every imaginable posture. It might have been the kind of scene that had taken place in Rome in its days of worst
12:35 -  debauchery, and there were lunch bags and wrappers and leaflets and every kind of refuse and litter strewn in those stands, and there were these kids, some of them had to make a drape over each other.
12:47 -  It was a scene that I had seen not too long ago, like that at Grange Village, where they were just sitting on the rim of that Washington Square fountain, and as I squinted my eyes, I thought that these were snakes writhing and squirming, this must be the pit of hell.
13:02 -  And I looked up and I didn't know what to speak, as I don't know what to speak to you now, as I never know what to speak. But I prayed God for his word that says that he gives us all utterance.
13:16 -  And I began saying something like, for two hours I've been sitting here and listening to your speeches, and I want you to know that as a Jewish man I've been greatly concerned with the questions of righteousness and social justice all my life long.
13:30 -  But I have to say this also, that you've been another reminder to me of just how inept and just how ceremonial and shallow our human solutions are, near words without any real substance and without life.
13:46 -  Here you've been lamenting the death of four students, but it's not even a shabby sentimental lament. If you're really concerned with death, you'll be the first to see the death which is in your
13:59 -  own throat and your own mouth. You're sepulchers of death yourself. You're quick to point the fingers of accusation with brims full of self-righteous indignation
14:12 -  at the exploiter and the imperialist, but slow to see the imperialist and the exploiter within. You know how come I was able to say those things?
14:21 -  Because that's exactly the revelation God gave me about my own heart and life six years before. I had said the same slogan, and I'd been filled with the same self-righteous indignation,
14:33 -  not realizing that I was the worst and the least. Slogans are not going to save us, not even Christian slogans. And I wondered why it was, as a young child of God, four and five years ago, six years
14:51 -  ago, I used to somehow flinch when I would hear Christians say, Christ is the answer. Why did I flinch? And in a sense I knew it was true, and only recently God revealed to me why I was flinching.
15:04 -  It's because it's a slogan. Slogans are not going to save the world. Even the slogan that Christ is the answer is not going to save the world.
15:15 -  But when it no longer is a slogan, when it's an authentic reality, when it's something that's creative in our heart and life, Christ is the answer. And God wants us to shift gears from slogans to reality, from doctrines to reality.
15:35 -  We've got all the right doctrines, but we don't have the right reality. And if you had the right reality, I would not have had to wait 35 years to have discovered that my God lives.
15:52 -  Because I wasn't an insulated Jew holed up in a ghetto in Brooklyn. I was a wandering Jew, like so many of my people and my Swedish brother, broken off from the mainstream and just floating like Waxham and Jetsam over the face of the earth
16:07 -  to California on six different occasions looking for a city. Young, stupid, romantic, thinking that if I found a certain city, my soul would be at ease. And only to find that the city after city, that it's only one universal racerace.
16:24 -  And hardly makes a difference what the accident of culture or language is. A city is not going to do it. No special vocation is going to do it.
16:35 -  And sorrow upon sorrow and tragedy upon tragedy, no human relationship is going to do it either. And oh, oh, oh, for the broken lives and bodies that have had the misfortune of crossing mine in the first 35 years of my life, when I, like some fiend, was ready to suck blood
16:55 -  and nutriment and life out of them. There's not a woman maid who can answer to that need. God bless you, precious ladies.
17:05 -  And there's not a man maid that can answer to that need for you. And we're killing each other and cursing each other and destroying each other because of our terrible disappointment in each other.
17:17 -  Because we're seeking for that relationship that's totally deep, totally engaging. That would mean life that only God himself can bring. And we're making of each other Gods.
17:28 -  And we weren't designed that way. So I lived in a Christian country, quote, unquote, for 34 years. And not a single Christian ever spoke to me about the gospel of Jesus Christ.
17:43 -  I traveled this country one side and down the other in every mode of transportation you can name, including hitchhiking. And not a single Christian ever put in my hands a single piece of literature or a tract.
17:56 -  I didn't know a single thing in the Bible. And I'm amused or as a saddened now when Christian people come to me and say, oh, Art, you must have a wonderful background in the Old Testament being Jewish.
18:08 -  And I have to confess with same embarrassment that the first scriptures I ever read was out of the New Testament. I'm learning now the things of my heritage and my ancestry
18:20 -  thanks to the kindness and the mercy and the grace of God. We Jewish people are in ignorance and in darkness. And I was a university graduate,
18:35 -  and I didn't know that Jesus Christ was the Greek name for Yeshua HaMashiach, Jesus. I didn't know that the New Testament was a Jewish book and that all of its characters are Jewish.
18:50 -  I didn't know that Christianity was the fulfillment of our Jewish faith and that there's only one God and one way and one book and one salvation and it's the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
19:02 -  I thought that the Gentiles had their religion and we Jews had ours and both equally bloodless, a culture only. But one day, seven years ago, as a man who had died,
19:19 -  saying it's death which worketh life, when I had come to the utter end of myself, it took 34 years. It took succeeding to fail.
19:29 -  But you know that? Nothing fails like success. I'm turning it around. Because I, who had been a high school dropout
19:37 -  and who had brought my mother gray hair and who was distressed, still waiting for nachos and satisfaction from her son, finally had that day come when I was a high school teacher,
19:47 -  I was a professional, I was a university graduate, and when I obtained all the things for which I had been in hot pursuit all my life long, I realized then finally, you're finished, Katz.
20:00 -  You have nothing, you are nothing, you have nothing to communicate to your students, but your grief for a world that's dying.
20:10 -  And what are your slogans? And what are your ideologies? And what are your unctuous phrases about human brotherhood when you yourself are quite able to grind the heel
20:20 -  in the face of one close to you, all the while speaking the right slogans? You know what I saw about my students? They weren't so innocent.
20:30 -  They weren't so different from the adult generation outside them, that our little classroom was not just an innocent classroom, it was a microscopic universe,
20:40 -  and every great passion that rages in the world that brings death was raging in that room. It hardly matters whether it's business success,
20:51 -  whether it's pursuit of nations, whether it's economic advantage, or just the obtaining of a grade,
20:58 -  we're human, all too human. And in my 34th year, I came to this realization, nothing that we have will avail.
21:08 -  The psychiatry is not going to do it, legislation is not going to do it, Marxism is not going to do it,
21:14 -  no human program is going to do it, education is not going to do it. We've got to become some kind of new creature.
21:23 -  But I didn't know how. So I took a year's leave of absence from CPE and began a trip that lasted 14 months.
21:32 -  I began it as an atheist, seeking for philosophy. What else have modern men to seek? Although I had exhausted them all.
21:41 -  And I began to have the strangest series of encounters in the course of the 14 months of travel. I remember gentile men that picked me up
21:50 -  off the side of a road in Brooklyn. I was hitchhiking, by the way. We teachers are not that well paid
21:56 -  that we can travel for 14 months in any other fashion. I was a bum, traveling with a knapsack, living out of that for 14 months.
22:04 -  I was a foreboding, angry-looking sight, having learned what it means to stand for two and three hours in a rehearsal in the rain by the side of the road.
22:13 -  And a man picked me up one day in a brand new car and didn't just wait behind the wheel and give me the, come on, hurry up, son, I'm doing you a favor.
22:19 -  He got out of the car and he greeted me at the side of the road, beaming from ear to ear as if I were doing him the favor. You know what my first suspicion was?
22:29 -  I'd been around. And this guy took my filthy rucksack and tossed it in the backseat of his car.
22:40 -  When I saw it hit the brand new poultry, I winced for him. And I looked at his face. He hadn't even noticed. I thought, what manner of man is this?
22:47 -  And he bade me sit down on that front seat and made me to feel like the exalted guest, as if I were doing him the favor.
22:56 -  And you know, people, you can't get someone to feel that way by feigning it. And he turned and looked at me as we drove off,
23:04 -  and he could see I was not a high school kid, it was well past the tour season, and he asked me in German, he said,
23:10 -  why are you traveling? As I could, I tried to explain in my broken way. I said, I'm a modern man.
23:16 -  What I should have said is, I'm the modern man. I'm modern man personified. I've grown deeply from the fountains of modern life.
23:25 -  Now, read to the fountains. It's a cistern that's trapped. And I said, I'm seeking for a foundation to my life.
23:34 -  My foundations have crumbled. And for some reason, I don't know why I told a stranger, I told him I'm Jewish.
23:40 -  Now, I didn't share that with most Gentiles, because most Gentiles, they grunt, or they nod, or they go silent, or they scratch their heads,
23:48 -  or worse. But you know what happened to this man when I just conveyed that little piece of information?
23:54 -  He began to glow and radiate like a neon tube. His face literally began to shine. Oh, he insisted right away that we stop for refreshments
24:03 -  at his expense, for which I was grateful. And we had a conversation that day at that Swiss coffee house that I'll never forget.
24:14 -  And I'm so grateful for this opportunity now, and I didn't seek it. I praise God for that.
24:18 -  No wheeling and dealing. I was a wheeler and dealer for 34 years, a pox on that.
24:23 -  To be free in Christ is to be free indeed. And if God wants to bring something to pass, He will.
24:29 -  And if He doesn't want to bring it to pass, I don't want it either. But I think God wants you to know this,
24:36 -  because many of you ask, Art, how do you witness to a Jewish person? Art, how do I share the things of God with my Jewish friends?
24:45 -  And I want you to know, and I know that you do know, there's no mechanical way.
24:51 -  There's a precious, holy Spirit of God who knows that Jew better than he knows himself. You know what that man did with me that day?
25:03 -  He kept his mouth shut and he listened. I won't say he listened, he heard. Hearing is a deep act of love.
25:13 -  And I found myself pouring out this entire screen to the content and burden of my life. I spared nothing, every single grimy detail
25:21 -  that I had not shared with mother, wife, friends. I was sharing with this strange Gentile. I thought to myself,
25:28 -  Cat, what are you doing? As if a damn head burst, out it came. And he wasn't gingerly holding up his skirts
25:35 -  for fear that it was going to trail in the dirt. He was receiving my life into his. It's painful, but it's an act of love.
25:45 -  We're so desperate to be heard, we're willing to pay $25 for a half hour, a full experience of therapeutic effect just to be heard.
25:55 -  And when I finished and I came to the end of myself, leaned back exhausted and world weary, and I looked at this man,
26:00 -  he wasn't anything very special to look at. I thought, what is he going to say to me? Is he going to tell me now about philosophy?
26:06 -  Big deal. I've been an existentialist, a Marxist, a pragmatist, you name it, and I've wrestled with it and gone through it.
26:13 -  Is he going to tell me about ideologies and mass movements and politics? Why, my God, I've belonged to half a dozen organizations
26:19 -  on the attorney general's list. I distributed leaflets and carried placards when these kids still had pacifiers,
26:26 -  when it was dangerous to be a radical. There's nothing new under the sun. And this man turned to me and said,
26:34 -  you know, Art, what the world needs? And I looked at my arrogance. I was very arrogant, hoary, angry, face, skeptical.
26:42 -  I said, watch. He said, what the world needs, Art, is for men to wash one another's feet.
26:55 -  How did he know? How did he know that the one great crushing burden of my life was the inability of men to be reconciled to each other?
27:06 -  My heart was broken because wherever I looked, I saw division and enmity and strife, students and teachers, black and white,
27:15 -  Jew and Gentile, male and female, husband and wife, wherever I looked, rich and poor, enmity and division, breaking and crushing the human race.
27:26 -  And when he spoke that one line, Art, what the world needs is for men to wash one another's feet. Something exploded in my heart.
27:34 -  I felt pieces and smithereens and fragments flying around inside my chest. Saliva began running in my mouth.
27:40 -  There was an inner cry that went up from my heart. It said, Eureka, cats, this is it. By a simple spirit of humility and love,
27:46 -  the world could be changed overnight without a drop of blood being spilled. And what have your ideologies and philosophies brought mankind
27:54 -  but contention, suffering, strife and death? And I had a vision in that same moment of the arrogant and the haughty peoples of the world
28:04 -  humbling themselves to wash the feet of the lowly and the despised. We're not going to take three centuries of racial hatred in America and divide the legislative program to overcome that.
28:17 -  Please turn this tape over to hear the balance of the message. We're not going to take three centuries of racial hatred in America and divide the legislative program to overcome that.
28:39 -  And I remember when I was a high school teacher and one of my black brothers was at the other side of the lunch table with me in the school cafeteria.
28:46 -  And he said, Art, all I want is the legal right to sit opposite you and eat. I said, big deal. So you'll masticate your food on one side
28:56 -  and your guts will be churning within you and I'll masticate my food on the other side and shoot darts at you with my eyes
29:02 -  and you'll have your legal right. That kind of eating is death. The kind of eating that's life is the breaking of bread in love, you see.
29:15 -  That's not going to come by a piece of legislation. That's going to come by the washing of feet, by the humbling of the haughty and the arrogant.
29:24 -  When we'll recognize that there's no man good, no not one, that there isn't a good guy and a bad guy, we're all bad guys. There's no man good.
29:36 -  That's the knowledge that the world needs, lest we perish. That's the knowledge that came to the prophet Isaiah when he was already in God's service.
29:44 -  He was already a choice oracle. He was already the prince of the prophets. But then he caught a glimpse of God high and lifted up.
29:53 -  And he cried out, Oy vey, that's Jewish. Oy vey. My people have been beating their chests for centuries
30:00 -  crying oy vey for the wrong things. But I'm waiting to hear that one last great oy vey. When my Jewish people are going to have the experience
30:10 -  that their prophet Isaiah had, and they're going to catch a glimpse of God high and lifted up, His glory filling the temple, no more slogans,
30:20 -  no more cliches, no more religion as culture, but something deeply spiritual, something authentic, out of the bosom and the heart of the living God,
30:29 -  and they're going to cry oy vey, I'm undone. I'm a man of unclean lips, and I live, Mr. People of Unclean Lips.
30:38 -  You'll never understand yourself until you catch a glimpse of Him. It's a double revelation.
30:44 -  It's the same revelation that came to Job, who spoke so eloquently. He was so righteous.
30:50 -  But when he caught a glimpse of the living God, before whose creation we tremble, he said, I spoke once, I spoke twice,
30:58 -  but now I stuff my mouth. I abhor myself, and I repent in dust and ashes. And then God spoke to Job's comforters,
31:08 -  the theologians, the ones that have all the slick and right answers. My wrath is kindled against me,
31:16 -  because you've not spoken as my servant Job has spoken. There's only one thing that I want to hear from you, my creation. I want to hear oy vey, I'm undone.
31:28 -  I want to hear you say you abhor yourselves, that you spoke once or twice, but now you're going to stop your mouths.
31:36 -  That's the only fixed thing in the presence of the Most High God. The world is choking on its arrogance
31:44 -  and its conceit and self-righteous indignation, and we're going to kill each other that our programs might be affected.
31:51 -  And literally we will. That's the spirit that the devil has been pouring out over these great campuses.
31:59 -  So when I began speaking that day to these kids, and they began to catch wind of what I was saying, cries began to come up around that amphitheater.
32:07 -  How did he get the microphone? What's this got to do with the strike? And when I started preaching Jesus, I heard the cries,
32:16 -  Give us Barabbas! Give us Barabbas! The day is not far off, but we're going to hear also,
32:25 -  crucify them, crucify them. Two worlds are in collision, people, and we're right down to the final showdown.
32:35 -  Two kingdoms in collision. And I wondered how I was perplexed as a young child of God when I came back from Jerusalem
32:43 -  sixty years ago to take up my place in a Christian Pentecostal congregation in California. Where's the persecution, I used to ask?
32:50 -  Where's the persecution? Why, this couldn't be more comfy. We're sitting right in, we're part of the establishment,
32:58 -  everything is nice and pleasant, we have a little fellowship among ourselves, and we go home.
33:03 -  Where's the persecution? I never did experience it until God brought me into this work with my own people,
33:10 -  and I stood on a soapbox at Broadway and 72nd Street in New York and began preaching the Gospel. I began to taste persecution,
33:17 -  but I also began to taste the glory of God. That same night in Chicago, of the day that I'm describing to you,
33:30 -  I was invited to speak at a great youth rally at a Pentecostal church of a great Pentecostal denomination.
33:39 -  And I sat on that platform hot and sweaty and tired and dirty. We'd been all afternoon talking with the students on the grass,
33:48 -  my pants were stained, I had been sitting on my Bible, and my Bible was falling apart
33:54 -  and I had a black tape to hold the seams together, and I had a big black stripe down the back of my pants, and I hadn't hardly had time to wash
34:04 -  and to collect my thoughts and senses, and I looked on the platform, and the platform was just laden with the sharpest men of God
34:11 -  with their double-breasted mod suits and wide lapels and ties and well-cultivated sideburns,
34:18 -  and they were just real sniffy. This is my first and last time with the Pentecostal denomination. I looked out on that audience,
34:44 -  and there were these beautiful, well-dressed, middle-class kids, their faces were shined and scrubbed and every hair neatly in place,
34:51 -  and they came for a good time. There was a good-time spirit, and I got the signal, I got a little poke,
34:57 -  now Art, give them the testimony, send them home, rah, rah, rah, get them all fired up, a little pep talk,
35:03 -  but you know what happened to me as I was sitting on that platform? There was a still small voice that kept saying over and over again, Art, preach on the cross, Art, preach on the cross,
35:12 -  and I was arguing with God on the platform. I said, Lord, can't you see this is not the time and the place? See, these kids have just come for a pep talk,
35:21 -  the hour is late, I can't see even these kids holding their Bibles, I'm confused and I'm out of joint,
35:29 -  and in my eyes I still have that burning image of these kids with their hair strewn down over their faces, and they're utterly perplexed and distraught,
35:37 -  I have two images of two generations, one over the other, I'm diminished, I'm confused and I'm perplexed,
35:46 -  and I don't have coherence, I don't know what to say, I'm just a broken man. Art, preach on the cross.
35:53 -  But it's a young audience, and I know the message you're troubling me with, I've never spoken it, Lord, because I know you wanted me to show that the cross is the one message of the whole book.
36:02 -  It's an Old Testament message, and that I should begin in the Old Testament and that this is only the kind of searching of the word
36:10 -  that only the deepest children of God would enjoy. This isn't the time, it's not the place, every human reckoning says no!
36:16 -  And they said, Art, we're going to give you the service at 8 o'clock. But they didn't tell me they were going to have a competition that night, most favorite pastor competition,
36:23 -  and they had this platform with the last three top contestants, and one guy had 2,362 points, the other guy had 2,122,
36:33 -  and they got 50 points if someone shined their shoes and 50 points if someone washed their car, 1,000 points if someone cleaned their Sunday school rooms,
36:40 -  and they were leading off these point totals, and I was dying, dying, dying. Then they finally called on me,
36:48 -  gave me a nice little introduction, peppy, and I just dragged my body. And you know what the first words out of my mouth were?
36:56 -  I cried out to God, God, I'm tired of being tried! I'm tired of these deaths!
37:04 -  Why can't I have a patchy situation just this once? Why is it always coming into situations, like at the University of Illinois at Urbana,
37:14 -  where they had my name plastered all over the campus, without my saying so, ArtCats was coming, ArtCats was coming,
37:21 -  and then the first meeting at the State Union Building at noontime, where every afternoon they have another radical spewing out obscenities, and they said, now here's ArtCats,
37:30 -  and they pushed me out in the midst of two or three hundred students who were just waiting like this, oh boy, we'll carve this guy up and send him home wrapped in bandages.
37:41 -  And I didn't know what to say, I don't have wisdom, I don't know how to, in a human way,
37:47 -  to convince people about the reality of God, but I saw miracles for eight days, four to six times a day,
37:55 -  from one meeting to another, every meeting went overtime, the reaction was fantastic and fierce,
38:01 -  it was explosive, students were climbing the walls and ceilings and nodding their fists and anguishing
38:07 -  and gnashing their teeth and fumbling at the mouth and cries of insane and mad men and fanatics, but at every meeting,
38:14 -  where the invitation was given, souls would cry out to receive the Lord Jesus. The last of these meetings at a Jewish fraternity house, ZBC,
38:24 -  the wealthiest, most famous on the campus, and the only ground on which they were going to have me if I would debate with a professor from the university
38:33 -  who teaches comparative religion, who speaks half a dozen Semitic languages, as well as Greek,
38:41 -  and is conversant with the Bible, and he's an expert on this, that and the other, and they called me long distance,
38:47 -  Art, can you handle this? The only condition that the Jewish fraternity house will have you invite other Jewish students,
38:56 -  I said, why of course not. I can't handle it, but I can't handle any other of those meetings either,
39:08 -  and the same God who's going to speak then will speak at the fraternity house also. So the final meeting came, and there he was, sharp,
39:16 -  very ingratiating with the students, had his jacket off and over the dinner table, and they had this political communion together,
39:25 -  they were all progressives, and I stole away and found a place to fall on my face before God and pray,
39:32 -  and then the meeting began, and they made the mistake and they allowed me to speak first. And after about a half hour, some of these Jewish kids
39:40 -  turned to this professor, he hadn't said boo yet, and they said, say, aren't you going to answer this man? And this guy began going like this,
39:49 -  and he made one or two lame apologetic remarks, and he just slipped out of that house, strictly no contest.
39:58 -  At midnight that night, we picked up the 20 Christian kids of every denominational background who were a mile across campus at the Student Union building
40:06 -  praying their hearts out for that meeting. Every meeting was prayed for while the meeting was in progress, and God gave us a glimpse of New Testament Christianity
40:18 -  as I had never been afforded such a glimpse before. I began to realize that the Bible isn't just for academic Sunday school lessons,
40:28 -  that we were preaching out of it, and counseling out of it, and living it day and night constantly. One spirit and one accord,
40:37 -  I never saw anything more precious and more beautiful. We couldn't afford to indulge ourselves in the abductional differences
40:43 -  because they were lives at stake, and it was war. Prayer, it was our lifeline. We clutched it incessantly.
40:51 -  Our cries were going up before God continually because they were lives at stake. All of a sudden, it all came together,
40:59 -  that full-orbed Christian life, all of a sudden, because we were obedient to the word that said,
41:05 -  go ye out into all the world and preach my gospel to every creature. I wish I had all kinds of time
41:13 -  to tell you the things that have happened. The cry of a student that came in one night at one of these meetings with a Van Dyke beard,
41:19 -  a Catholic kid, and he stopped transfixed on the spot, and he kept saying over and over again
41:26 -  like a record with a needle stuck. Oh, he said, I'm unworthy to hear this. I'm unworthy to hear this.
41:32 -  And when we had the hot question-and-answer period later, and these guys were asking snide questions in the back of the room,
41:39 -  he stood to his feet and said, why are you guys talking like this? Can't you see God has come into our midst this day?
41:45 -  When I gave that invitation, I went out with a loud voice, and the meeting was over,
41:51 -  and he immediately fell into my arms, saved to the uttermost. You know what happened that night
41:57 -  at the Jewish Fraternity House? At midnight, we picked up these kids who had been praying, and they said,
42:03 -  Aunt, didn't something happen at 10.30? I said, how did you know? Oh, he just sent out spirits.
42:09 -  From 6 to 10.30, it was a war. That's exactly what it was. They said, but from 10.30 on,
42:15 -  you know, in that Fraternity House, all of the anger, and the rancor,
42:21 -  and the rage, and the animosity, and the egotism was out.
42:27 -  They had spewed it out and spit it out, and they had left, and they were vexed. I saw students in and out of the meeting two or three times.
42:33 -  They left in the house and came back, and left in the house and came back. They couldn't break away.
42:39 -  And I said, I've been saying all night to you that there's a living God speaking to you, and that if you'll call upon the name of the Lord,
42:45 -  he'll attest that this is his word, and that this is his salvation. and that this is his salvation.
42:51 -  And we finally bowed our heads, and I gave a prayer for salvation. I heard a chorus of voices following me,
42:57 -  and when I looked up, I saw 10 to 15 of these Jewish intellectuals in the hearing of the Gospel for the first time, trembling
43:03 -  and weeping as the Spirit of God came in and possessed their lives.
43:09 -  So now I'm back again in Chicago standing at that pulpit, and I was telling the people my predicament.
43:15 -  I said, as I've been sitting here all night on this platform, the Spirit of God has been singing in my heart,
43:21 -  I preach on the cross, preach on the cross. And I've been told to give the testimony. I know this isn't the time and the place
43:27 -  where a lengthy message. I said, let's look to the Lord now for his leading. And we prayed,
43:33 -  and I asked God that his will be fulfilled, and when we finished praying, I said to these people,
43:39 -  now I'm going to take a vote. How many of you people felt as you prayed that I ought to give the testimony?
43:45 -  When I said, take a vote, I looked out of the corner of my eye, and there was the pastor of the home church, he just slipped into his seat,
43:51 -  and he had that sick look on his face, I've seen it before, and he says, I'll never invite a Jewish speaker again.
43:57 -  I said, how many people felt as they prayed that I ought to give the testimony? And one hand went up
44:03 -  and the entire 500 people, one hand fulcrum, how many people think I ought to preach on the cross?
44:09 -  The hands went up just all over that room. I took a deep breath and I turned to 1 Samuel 15,
44:15 -  and I began reading those scriptures, and immediately the weight lifted,
44:21 -  my head began to clear, I felt unction and anointing, the Spirit of God taking possession,
44:27 -  the words were going out with clarity, and I sailed through that message for 45 minutes as if I had preached it a hundred times,
44:33 -  and I finished, I didn't have to give an invitation, no sentimentality, no playing on emotions,
44:39 -  no loud, raucous voices, they just came broken, because there was an invitation
44:45 -  to death. There was an invitation to discipleship. And I so appreciated
44:51 -  Derek Prince's message yesterday on fasting, and in my own very limited experience,
44:57 -  I know that every fast is a death. There's no life without a death.
45:05 -  And I think God wants to bring that upon our souls. He's not called us to a culture and how easy it is,
45:11 -  who knows it better than we do, to take the sacred things of God and to make of it
45:17 -  a religion and a culture. Hasn't that been the tragic history of our race?
45:25 -  Hasn't that been the tragic history of Christianity? Hasn't it been the tragic history
45:31 -  of the Pentecostal movement? And I pray to God that that does not become the tragic history of the full
45:37 -  Gospel businessmen. That God keep us in all purity, in the spirit, and in the faith.
45:43 -  That we shudder with revulsion at the slightest introduction of anything
45:49 -  that's not of the Spirit of God. That we're ready to receive the death
45:55 -  day by day that life might go forth from us and through us to a world that's dying.
46:03 -  I'm going to stop with this now. We just got an invitation to come to New York to direct the work
46:09 -  of the American Board of Missions to the Jews to two and a half million Jews in New York City. It's so utterly foolish.
46:17 -  I'm so utterly ill equipped. I'm such a Johnny Come Lately left behind the ears.
46:23 -  I'm so ignorant about the scriptures and the things of God. I need to be instructed.
46:29 -  And God is bringing us to a very hard place. My own mother is in that city.
46:35 -  And she's not believed. And she's whammed the door in my face
46:41 -  and called me mad though she loved me when I was a radical and an atheist.
46:47 -  What is it going to take to bring the light of God the news that our Messiah has come
46:53 -  to two and a half million of our Jewish people? I tell you people that this is not just another
46:59 -  ethnic ministry. This is the chosen people of God.
47:05 -  This is God Israel. New York is the great Babylon. This is the center of the
47:11 -  publishing industry, the TV industry. This is where the great opinions and the culture is shaped
47:17 -  that goes forth all over the world and Jews are at the heart of it. I came to Chicago
47:23 -  for one great reason. Two great reasons. That my brother who came with me from New York
47:29 -  might be healed in his back. And he received that at the Catherine Coleman meeting. And my other great burden was
47:35 -  that God might touch your heart to pray for the Jewish people. This is the last decade.
47:43 -  I don't speak that with any great person or authority. I don't know if the world would go on beyond the 1970s.
47:49 -  But the thing that God has inscribed in my heart is this is the last decade
47:55 -  when we're going to be able to work unhindered for the Kingdom. When this decade ends, and perhaps earlier
48:01 -  that night will come when no man can work. Are you preparing yourself for adversity
48:07 -  and crisis? Are you preparing yourself for persecution and for distress?
48:13 -  I've already heard from a nice middle class girl in a Christian college who looked at me without
48:19 -  batting an eyelash and said, Art, I believe that God is telling me to kill you. And that scripture came to mind
48:25 -  that they will come, that they will kill us and claim that they're doing God's service. We're not going to challenge
48:31 -  the power of this world system. We're not going to challenge and crack through to the center of world
48:37 -  Jewry without there being a great adverse reaction and a response and great
48:43 -  persecution as it came upon God's apostolic children of old. Are you preparing yourself now?
48:49 -  I want to know how to fast now. I want to know how to prevail before God now.
48:55 -  I want to know how to live unto God now and not unto our cats now. That when that day comes
49:01 -  that God has a prepared vessel through whom he can speak to bring the word of life in great
49:07 -  power and great unction to a people who are dying. Will you bow your heads with me now?
49:15 -  Great living God. God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
49:23 -  Lord God, how long have you grieved and how long have you mourned
49:29 -  for this peculiar people who you fashion for yourself
49:35 -  to minister unto you, to be a nation of priests and a light unto the world,
49:41 -  to be a people who would cleanse the temple, to be a people who would bring hip sacrifice of praise
49:47 -  from their lips? How long have you heard cursing and indifference
49:53 -  and cheap slogans instead? And we tell God for thy glory and for thy
49:59 -  delight that that day would soon come when you will again be hearing from the lips of thy
50:05 -  Jewish children all over the face of this earth great praise to the God
50:11 -  Jehovah. O God, let thy great spirit fall upon this
50:17 -  people in darkness all over this earth. Work in their hearts to create a hunger for the divine things.
50:23 -  Make us to be sick and to be discontent with shame, with pretense, with
50:29 -  culture, with human religion that we will only desire the pure things of
50:35 -  the living God. Bless this people, Lord God, and right now, light into their hearts your burden
50:41 -  for the nation Israel, for thy chosen people. Have them to be great warriors.
50:47 -  Have them to be great warriors. Have them to be great warriors. Simply, O Lord,
51:05 -  was the spirit of the God who carried each of his dawn of life
51:11 -  and gave to us upon the valley of our home by the dry bones.
51:17 -  There arose in his heart a question empty of bones and the spirit of the God
51:23 -  spoke unto him, and gave each of his house down north to the Lord. And the spirit
51:29 -  of the God spoke unto him and gave up high on the wind, and the wind did blow,
51:35 -  and the bones were closed with flesh, and gave the spirit of the God who
51:41 -  breathed upon them, and gave the spirit of the God who breathed upon thee, and gave the spirit
51:47 -  of the God who breathed upon thee, even though the world was not flat, and even without bones.
51:53 -  And the spirit of the God raised me up, and gave his mind to be forward
51:59 -  in the most powerful Holy Ghost adored and to wonder to work for the living God. Gave
52:05 -  the spirit of the God he downed me for a century, and delivered
52:11 -  him made by the way he died. Even those who now have saved my heart shall be
52:17 -  born free. Yet bones have not yet been raised, like they have been made. Speak
52:23 -  unto them, speak unto the spirit of the Lord who breathed, and God shall bring them up again,
52:29 -  they shall walk by my side, and I shall go forth hundering on the altar
52:35 -  in the morning spirit of the Lord, for yet he hath called me, he hath raised me, and now
52:41 -  shall I even sleep on the mountain of the Lord. Glory, hallelujah, glory to God.
52:47 -  As that word was coming forth, God reminded me that I should conclude with this.
52:53 -  A few months after my conversion in California, as God led me into the giving of this testimony, after one Sunday night
52:59 -  service, a lowly, poorly gentile woman came up to me. She said, you don't know me, brother Cat,
53:05 -  but you had my daughter when you first began teaching in high school. She knew that you were a radical and atheist and came home from
53:11 -  school every afternoon weeping over you, and she said, from that day to this, both my
53:17 -  daughter and I have been praying for you. Thank you
53:31 -  for this tremendous message, brother R.K. I remember
53:37 -  as he taught in my own heart, I kept
53:43 -  dedicating my own life. I appreciate it because
53:51 -  he has the pulse of the time also, pulse of the situation.
53:59 -  He is singing it from both sides of the new generation
54:05 -  now and from the eyes of Jesus for the spirit.
54:13 -  I concur in my own spirit that our time is running out in this world.
54:19 -  And all I can say is thank God you've been visiting us this week in a
54:25 -  tremendous way. Our hearts have been challenged and challenged and challenged.
54:31 -  I pray that coming this banquet this afternoon
54:37 -  as we close and go back home that
54:43 -  it's pretty hard to digest everything and really appreciate
54:49 -  everything that has been said and done during these last few days. So many things have been happening.
54:55 -  He has been moving so fast in God and his spirit pouring into us.
55:01 -  So many things that in their months and months as we reflect
55:07 -  and I believe that when we go back we're going to suddenly
55:13 -  grow in the spirit of God understanding and comprehend what he's trying
55:19 -  to get through to us. And even some of the things we don't quite understand right now in a week or two, a month or two
55:25 -  he will suddenly understand. You may wake up one with my young
55:31 -  and now understand. So when we leave this place let's leave with an open heart
55:37 -  and we'll leave after tonight's meeting let's leave with an open heart determined
55:43 -  dedicated your life unto death that Lord I'm willing to do
55:49 -  anything you want me to do now because a year from now
55:55 -  six months from now or two years from now I don't know this could be a decade
56:01 -  maybe just a month from now like Dr. Cat said. Praise
56:07 -  God. Then if all the forces of
56:13 -  and all energies break loose and if this is the time
56:19 -  of the coming of the Messiah as he said he's coming back
56:25 -  as the angels said he's coming back as the disciples preached it certainly appears
56:31 -  that we're coming to this time then what is more important in all our lives
56:39 -  than to start doing now what God wants? you