Paul man of the Spirit

00:00 -  This message by the Reverend Arthur Katz was recorded on August 19th at the People's Church in Tacoma, Washington during the Summer Festival of Worship. I can't think of a more appropriate night than what we have already experienced. Probably this is as grand religion as can be experienced in our world. I can't reach a greater pitch or peak than this. The glory of this music, the worship, the spirit, the cordiality that prevails in this sanctuary, this is it.
00:37 -  This is the pitch, the ultimate in religion. How would you like to let it fall into the ground and die? I'm going to paint you such a picture tonight that it's so going to be a contrast of the glory that you've already experienced that you're going to suffer from cultural disorientation. In fact, you're going to have to make a rugged choice of which of these two cultures you're going to choose.
01:10 -  Religion in its glory or apostolic splendor, fresh out of the book of Acts, in all of its magnitude, in all of its grisly sweat and suffering and blood and vexation and distress and calamity. I have purposely worn my jacket so that I might take it off before you. Not just because I'm warm, but it contradicts the very tenor of all that God is giving me to speak tonight. If I could take this auditorium off as I would take this jacket off, I would do it because it is inconsistent with what is on my heart to speak tonight.
01:50 -  And yet in the same breath can I say I have never enjoyed such lovely hospitality. Tremendous, precious folk, gourmet meals, seeing to every need. This is religion in its ultimate, but there's an apostolic glory that yet exceeds it, which we shall never attain except that we be men and women of the Spirit.
02:21 -  I heard a man make a remark not long ago, and I was stunned, and my spirit said, that's true. His statement was, little of what is known to be the work or the activity of the Spirit of God is the Spirit of God. Isn't that a stunning statement?
02:46 -  Supposing that you could see as God sees. Supposing all the things that have excited and titillated your religious sensibilities, the glory of singing, of music, of instruments, of numbers, of crowds, of inspiring messages. What would you say that if I would suggest that all of that can be conducted in the realm of the soul?
03:12 -  And you'd have a ball and enjoy it. And think yourself spiritual, and it has not a wit or a grain to do with things of the Spirit. What would you say if I would say that that were a possibility?
03:25 -  What would you say if I said that is the condition that prevails largely in Christendom today, and especially in the charismatic world? If I could speak French, I would say, j'accusez. I accuse the charismatic world for a fraud, except that it's not conscious, willful, or knowing.
03:58 -  But we have all been seduced. We have all drifted and moved into that neither world between the realm of soul and spirit, and have not even known it. Some of us have never experienced or have walked in the Spirit of God.
04:16 -  And no one will ever have faulted you for it. No one will ever have detected it in you. And you'll go on being back slapped and bear hugged and applauded all the way to the grave.
04:25 -  And you'll never have known the realm of the Spirit. I'm almost asking God for the impossible. I've got two Bibles laid out before me, and there are two chapters from which I would like to speak.
04:38 -  I want to give you a slab, a taste, a hunk of apostolic reality. Push it right into your maw that you shall be utterly spoiled from this night forth. Spoiled is not word enough.
04:52 -  Ruined for anything less than the pure precincts of the Spirit of God. You want that? You may have to sell your building, hock your instruments.
05:06 -  Listen, I'm the guy who said he was going to pull out the plug from the collective amplifiers of Christendom. I think we all need to heed a book which is little read. And probably I was not ready for it when I picked it up a few years ago and it said nothing.
05:20 -  But it's saying increasingly now. It's called The Latent Power of the Soul by Watchman Nee. How prophetic.
05:29 -  Before the advent of the first amplifier, this man went on to suggest that one of the greatest menaces for the children of God at the end of the age would be that soulless realm of activity that emulates, imitates, counterfeits, and gives every appearance of being the realm of the Spirit. He spoke about the danger of numbers that adheres in just numbers.
05:54 -  There's something that inspires when you hear 4,000 men get up in Kansas City and sing before the Lord. There's something about music itself that has inherent possibilities for danger. So we need of all people and of all generations the sharpest kind of sensitivity and discernment
06:19 -  to be able to distinguish between that which is soulish and that which is spiritual. And I would say that that kind of discernment and knowledge is not born in a day. And every lesson in the practice thereof is costly and painful.
06:34 -  Now I'm going to be speaking out of the book of Acts, the 17th and the 16th chapters, and I'll start 17 and I'll work back. I want to read one scripture. I spoke last night about can we find such a one as this, a man in whom the Spirit of God is.
06:54 -  And the two words that leap out of my heart are man and spirit. Isn't that a glory? Isn't that incomprehensible? Doesn't that beg of your mind? A man, not some paper mache disciple, not some cardboard grotesque,
07:13 -  not some snapped off the assembly line pert little character who has learned to quote scripture, a man full-orbed, flesh and blood, tempered, matured, seasoned, not some pipsqueak, not some graduate of some rush school of discipleship, a man in whom the Spirit of God is.
07:38 -  God is waiting for such a man, and his end-time intentions shall not be fulfilled without him. And the heck of it is that if we're only a single individual, I would have waved you goodbye long ago. But we're in this together, and the man that God is waiting is a corporate, many-membered man.
07:59 -  Therefore, I am bound by your immaturity, and limited by your fleshliness, and affected by your solely substitutes for the things that are spiritual, till we all come into the fullness and stature of Jesus Christ unto a perfect man.
08:22 -  Well, I want to recite to you something of the episodes of such a man. Oh, hallelujah! My greatest disillusionment and heartbreak when I was saved 13 years ago, naive when the floodgates of credulity opened, and I could believe everything after lifelong cynicism and unbelief,
08:42 -  was to take my place in the neighborhood Pentecostal church and find the enormous divergency between the book of Acts and what I had to experience every Sunday. It was a mock and it was a travesty for one who expected that we would be completing and continuing the book of Acts.
09:03 -  I have a Jewish heart for apostolic glory, not for me, for God, for the grandeur of God, for the men again that will shake cities. These are they which turn the world upside down, not deafen our ears with their amplifiers.
09:21 -  I'm not meaning those fellows, not you, somebody else. Bless you. I just want to read one scripture, Acts 17, the 16th verse.
09:39 -  Now while Paul waited for them at Athens, you know how he got there? He was brought by other men. He was in between stops. It wasn't on his schedule. While Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was stirred in him as he saw the city wholly given to idolatry.
09:57 -  Doesn't that sound like just an innocuous verse? Innocuous means not especially conspicuous. Big deal, we might say. So while Paul waited so the spirit within him stirred as he saw the city wholly given to idolatry,
10:14 -  I want to make a flat statement. Every good and perfect gift cometh down from above from the Father of lights. Every pure and holy work cometh down from above.
10:29 -  As for me and my house, we say pox on every so-called Christian work. I don't even care if it's ostensibly for the Jews. If it has not its origin in heaven. I don't give a rap how groovy it is, how laden with stars of David, and how full of matzah, and reeling with Yiddish kite.
10:54 -  I don't care how cultural, how groovy, how pert, how smart, how clever. I care only for this, that which has its origin from God to men by His Spirit. His Spirit was stirred in him when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry.
11:20 -  What a statement that touches the grandeur of what we're trying to express. A man in whom the Spirit of God is. He saw God stirred. The amplified is even a little stronger.
11:38 -  Now while Paul was awaiting them at Athens, his spirit was grieved and roused to anger. As he saw that the whole city was full of idols, he saw his spirit was stirred. That is the origin of every pure and holy work in the earth.
11:58 -  I want to ask you children, are you willing to wait till God shall stir your spirit? And may I suggest that when you shall be a full-orbed man like this, even when you're in between assignments and brought by other men in a place that you did not expect to be,
12:19 -  God will begin something that shall culminate on Mars Hill and challenge the intellectuals of that generation. God's only awaiting a man whose spirit He can stir. And from that point on, what a progression unto glory.
12:39 -  Therefore disputed He in the synagogue with the Jews and with the devout persons, and in the market daily with them that met with Him. Therefore. Can you see how you're off for a ride?
12:52 -  Something begins with the ignition of God in the spirit of a man, and then there's a therefore. He was roused to anger and grieve at a city given to idolatry. Therefore, He disputed in the synagogues with the Jews.
13:06 -  Now, are you students of the word? What does the one thing have to do with the other? If a man is vexed of idolatry, what is he doing in the synagogue?
13:17 -  That's exactly where he ought to be. That's the exact therefore. Because that's where idolatry is most flagrantly practiced.
13:33 -  Are you thinking that idolatry is only bowing down before some pagan idol and doing some kind of icky and foul, orgiastic things? Don't you know what idolatry is, children?
13:45 -  Idolatry is bending to any lesser altar than that of the Most High God. Idolatry are the religions of convenience that give men cop-out opportunity to experience a modicum of religious or psychic or emotional satisfaction
14:02 -  and yet retain the lordship of their lives. It's practiced everywhere, in synagogues and in Presbyterian churches and Methodists and Pentecostal assemblies.
14:17 -  It's idolatry. Why then is not your spirit grieved? Far often are we disturbed or bent out of shape or emotionally affected
14:33 -  and we take that to be a signal from God when it may only be indigestion or some personal idiosyncratic subjective response. There's a difference between that which emanates from our flesh
14:45 -  and that which has its origin by its spirit. There's a therefore that follows a logical continuation that is disputed with the Jews and the devout persons in the synagogue
14:59 -  and in the market daily with them that met with him. And I'll tell you what kind of a naive I am. I believe that every man that met with Paul in the marketplace
15:09 -  was on a divine collision course and God intended for them to have that meeting. Don't you love divine encounter? Don't you like it when God sets it up?
15:25 -  And are you preparing yourself to be the sensitive instrument in whom his spirit can grieve? How foolish will you think me if I reprimanded a woman, a precious saint whom I've known for years
15:38 -  because she picked up the check at the table at the cafe where eight of us had breakfast together. What do you mean you reprimanded her?
15:45 -  You should have applauded her. She did a good thing. And exactly what's going to kill us is good things. Where, pray tell, is your divine discontent?
15:56 -  Haven't you had a gut full of good things? And don't you hunger only for that which is perfect? And if you're not preparing yourself to see it in the things that are mundane and everyday,
16:10 -  how will you know it when it comes and you're caught between cities being brought there by other men? You just keep taking the check off the table
16:17 -  and keep doing good things that have their argin in your skull and you'll be completely incapacitated for the Spirit of God when he would have you to be moved.
16:26 -  Any one of us could have picked up the check. She picked it up and I turned to her without thinking, which is when I'm at my best.
16:35 -  See, that's what Paul counted as dung, his Yiddishia cups. I said, did God have you to do that? And she thought I was going to turn and resume my conversation with the person on my right.
16:47 -  Instead I turned again, I repeated a second time. Did God have you to do that? And she giggled a little bit more nervously and said yes,
16:53 -  but it wasn't quite as convincing. And she thought, well, finally, I've got cats off my back. He'll go back to his conversation.
16:59 -  And I turned a third time and said, did God have you to do that? Well, she said, I thought it would be a good thing. Children, are you only doing what God would have you to do?
17:11 -  Are you refraining from good things that you might be reserved unto Him for that which is perfect? Are you willing to suffer the reproach of isolation in Minnesota, thousands of miles removed from your Jewish kinsmen,
17:27 -  and to receive the mailings from other of your Jewish brothers who are in ministry, who are doing great things for God, with their campaigns and their rallies and their street activity,
17:38 -  and their slogans and their broadsides, and you're sitting waiting for the Spirit of God to stir you? I'm waiting for the apostolic glory of God.
17:57 -  I'm waiting for His campaign and His rally. I'm waiting for His cry to be sounded again in the earth. Repent!
18:06 -  For the kingdom of God is at hand, and I know that it cannot be sounded until there's a kingdom that is tangible and demonstrable, that can be seen, felt, looked at, and examined.
18:20 -  So get with it already, will you? As impressive as this service was tonight, it is not yet enough to persuade my people to cleave to the foolish one
18:40 -  and to embrace a way that has been polluted and corrupted for them by 2,000 years of satanic perversion, distortion, persecution, in the name of Him who is salvation.
18:57 -  No little glib entreaty is going to have a Jew to leave off from the way of this world and to take upon himself the way of faith, to contradict all that he has esteemed upon which his life has been predicated
19:12 -  and cast that upon the dung heap and walk in the way of foolishness and suffer for it unspeakable reproach from his own kinsmen, from his own family, and from his own community. Groovy religion will never induce him to do it.
19:26 -  But I'm waiting to show him a kingdom of absolute honesty and unfeigned love and truth that is fearful in its magnitude to people who are a glory that you would think that they are another race of men.
19:50 -  Repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. That's going to take more than successful services. So I'm willing to wait for the building of this kingdom
20:04 -  and the stirring of my spirit by His spirit when it shall please Him in His perfect moment. And it shall come, may God find us ready to respond
20:16 -  as men and women of the Spirit who can dispute in the synagogues with the Jews and the devout persons and in the marketplace daily with those with whom He would have us to be encountered.
20:28 -  Well, let's see, God has a plan for your life. Rule two, and whew, you think that's going to do it? Oh, if I had time I could tell you stories.
20:42 -  I could tell you of the unconventional speakings of God that would blow your mind. I could tell you of the insults of God and the goatings of God and the teasing and the provocations of God.
20:51 -  You would say it was not God. It's not nice. He would never do that. You didn't learn that in evangelical discipleship school.
21:01 -  You're right, I didn't. He gave it to me in the moment of the heated confrontation when in the Jewish fraternity house
21:09 -  they were hanging off the chandeliers and glued to the walls waiting to see the demise and the destruction of this Jewish freak. I am packed, waiting to see my head handed to me
21:20 -  by the professor of comparative religion, who is a notorious atheist who spoke Greek and Aramaic and Hebrew, and he's a Gentile. And I'm a Jew and I don't speak it.
21:37 -  They only made one mistake that night, they let me speak first. And the moment I opened my mouth, a holy hush came over that jammed ZBT fraternity house. And I went on and on.
21:55 -  And finally about a half hour after that, these kids were nudging this professor, aren't you going to answer this man? And finally the professor got up and made one or two lame apologetic intellectual remarks
22:05 -  and left with his tail between his legs, no contest. And that meeting went on for six hours. It wasn't a meeting, it was a war.
22:17 -  I saw Jews so vexed that their eyeballs were popping out of their skulls. The spittle was forming at the corners of their mouths. They got up in disgust and left the room, but came back two minutes later and took another seat.
22:30 -  They hated it, but they loved it. They were too Jewish to walk away from it. About ten o'clock at night, a kid came out of his seat with his fist clenched and his knuckles white.
22:45 -  I thought, here it comes. Everyone's breathing stopped, including mine. His kid was trembling like a leaf with a rage that was, that's indescribable.
22:57 -  Cat, he said, if your God can save me as you've been saying, I defy him to do it right now. Put up or shut up. Where was my four spiritual laws?
23:17 -  Bill Bright ever gets me, I've had it. You may franchise McDonald's hamburgers, but you're not going to franchise the Book of Acts, folks. It's original, it's spontaneous, it's powerful, it's a glory.
23:34 -  It's utterly unique in every situation given by God in that moment. And we need again to be restored to that high and holy standard. If it costs us everything, our buildings, our chorus, our choirs, our amplifiers, our guitars, all.
23:55 -  So what would you say to a kid like that? I was shot after eight days of meetings, wiped out. And I just opened my mouth and there was God dipping a great Turkish towel in icy water and nodding it.
24:10 -  Saturated, a knot, it was a clout, it was a lethal weapon out of my mouth. And I opened my mouth and the Lord let him have it right in the kisser. Whack! You need not think you can receive anything from God.
24:23 -  Your spirit stinks! Is that the way you talk to your Jewish people? No, that's the way he talks to my Jewish people.
24:35 -  When he'll have a mouth that will not hesitate to be open to speak the foolish and ungainly things of God that contradict one's own sensibility, taste, and intention. You'll never be such an instrument if you keep picking up the check because it's a good thing.
24:54 -  A pox on good things. That kid just flooded his eyelids and sank into a seat like a lamb. And 15 minutes later he was the first one to be saved.
25:07 -  And he was followed by 14 other Jews who came into the kingdom, trembling, shaking, and weeping. But we know what happened to Paul. Then certain philosophers of the Epicureans and of the Stoics encountered him and some said,
25:24 -  what will the babbler say? I can't tell you how embarrassed I've been by this gospel. Doesn't the Lord know that I have something of an intellectual reputation?
25:33 -  Couldn't he give me something a little bit more advantageous to talk about? Something that would have shown my own gifts to greater advantage? But the utter foolishness of the gospel.
25:45 -  The utter unspeakable foolishness. And how God has given me to see that. Eight o'clock in the morning, wheeling West Virginia opposite the desk of the Jewish business leader
25:59 -  who owned the local radio station and other business interests, whom I had called together with six other Jews that night asking if he would come to that night's meeting. And they all told me the same thing.
26:10 -  Too busy, too busy, too busy. The day will come when God will be too busy for you, buddy. And this last man said, too busy, and I was just about to hang up and I heard myself saying,
26:21 -  but sir, I said, are you available tomorrow morning? I thought, if anybody deserves to sleep in, it's kid cats. And to my utter amazement, the man said, yes, if you'll be here by eight.
26:32 -  And I was there at eight o'clock. You know, we were up till three o'clock that morning. It was a night of unparalleled glory. What a presence of God, we melted.
26:41 -  They took me to the home of one of the elders and we had communion together and I showed them how it came from the Jewish Passover table. Oh, they were delighted. I don't know what time I got to bed.
26:49 -  Wiped out, weeks on the road, eight o'clock in the morning I was in the man's office. What a man, mamma mia. What a specimen of worldly success.
26:59 -  $300 suit and diamond pinky rings. Why, he looked like a charismatic preacher. I always talk like this on the last night.
27:24 -  Somebody said, you'll get yours, kids. My wife has seen to it that she bought me a pair of white shoes, thank you. And I know she's got a pinky ring in mine, too.
27:41 -  What a picture of worldly success. He was bright, he was alert. He had his diplomas on the wall, his honorary certificates from the Benebrief.
27:49 -  He was a mensch, he had arrived. You should have seen me. What a stack of potatoes, what a crumpled specimen.
27:57 -  Pathetic, eyes like slit, slit with his mouth full of sawdust, drooped and wilted by the side of that desk which was like a football field. And he looked at me with the vigor of a Jewish businessman and said,
28:10 -  what do you want, I'll give you 15 minutes. And for the first time I thought to myself, cats, what do you want? I never felt so foolish, so vain, so naked, so absurd in all my life.
28:29 -  I was going to tell this paragon of virtue, this man applauded of the Jewish community, this man who had been told by gentiles that he's a better Christian than any Christian they know, that the God of his fathers lay aside his glory and his deity
28:45 -  and condescended to come to earth in the form of an infant that made doo-doo in his diapers, utterly helpless, trusting in the hands of those to whom he was placed, and lived a life of total obscurity, had a brief tenure of ministry
29:03 -  where he experienced the rejection and reproach of his own people and concluded it by being spat upon and beaten and pummeled and having his beard ripped and his back flayed
29:13 -  and then suspended on nails between heaven and earth, that if you believe that by some kind of magical faith you appropriate that blood that somehow you're forgiven, you're covered, you're restored.
29:25 -  Oh, come on. What do you want, cats? So I said to myself and to the Lord under my breath,
29:34 -  Lord, I said you got me into this, you answer the man. You know, whether he got us into it or not, may he always answer the man. May we always be kept from our own answers.
29:48 -  I opened my mouth and I said, sir, I'm a servant of the Most High God who has come to show unto you the way of salvation. When I heard those words, I said, ooh, talk about icky.
30:03 -  I thought, here it comes, a hand on the scruff of my neck and the other in the seat of my pants, and I'll be cast right down a flight of steps, some kind of Jewish eccentric.
30:13 -  But he never did that. And the same man who said, I'll give you only 15 minutes said 45 minutes later, what time does your plane leave with trembling and white lips?
30:24 -  I said, about noon. He said, could you come back a little later? I said, I got to think about this.
30:29 -  Hallelujah for a Jew who'll think about this. And I walked the streets of West Virginia praising God in the Spirit under my breath, came back at the appointed time, and 15 minutes after my return to his office,
30:42 -  his last question was, but Artie said, if I do this as you say and call on the name of the Lord, will I be forsaking my Jewishness? I said, dear brother, this is the establishing of your Jewishness.
30:56 -  He said, but I don't know how to pray. With his university degrees and awards on the paneled wall, I said, just bow your head and follow me word for word.
31:08 -  And so he did, just like a child, as the glory of God filled the office, my scalp tingling under the presence of God, and as I led him into a simple, thinnest prayer,
31:17 -  and as we came to the last line of the prayer, we went, ooh! And that's how he ended when the prayer ended, with his hands still on his chest, with that stupefied expression on his face.
31:25 -  He said, Artie said, what's that strange feeling in my chest? I said, you've just been born again by the Holy Spirit of God. Oh, I can give you illustration after illustration
31:41 -  of such ungainly things that God has performed, challenging German Pentecostal audiences, not with a message, but with the utter foolishness of a man like me,
31:52 -  by nature quiet and reserved, leaping and clicking my heels and carrying on like a clown. And I could not stop. I never did ever speak that night. I never did even make it to the platform.
32:08 -  What pathetic condition they were in, proud Pharisees, stiff, unyielding. I heard their prayer and understood just enough German to know how wooden it was. And I was about to come up on the platform, and I turned and looked at them and said,
32:24 -  would to God I could frolic with you on the grass. You try that out the next time on German Pentecostals. And frolic I did. I leaped, I danced, I sang, I cavorted, I carried on.
32:37 -  And my brother who was with me from the community, when he got up, he did exactly the same thing by the same spirit. And I can sense the bristling indignation welling up out of that congregation.
32:47 -  And I stood up while he was performing and I turned to them and I said, you Pharisees, indignant, that you're not hearing the word of God. You wanted a message.
32:59 -  Well, God has given you more than you've asked. He's made the word flesh. And is demonstrating what is missing from your congregation and from your life.
33:10 -  Reality, truth, spontaneity, freedom, liberty, joy, unfeign. They repented that night. Oh, children, a man in whom the Spirit of God is.
33:25 -  They brought Paul up to Mars Hill. He didn't send a letter weeks in advance to the full gospel director and say, listen, I think I'm going to be through Athens.
33:33 -  You think you can fix me up with a little meeting or two? It all began with the Spirit of God wincing in the spirit of a man, therefore. Then they brought him.
33:44 -  And when he had his glorious opportunity, how he defied every evangelical rule. Then Paul in the 22nd verse stood in the midst of Mars Hill and said, You men of Athens, I perceive that in all things you're too superstitious.
33:57 -  Whap! You want to insult intellectuals? Tell them that they're too superstitious.
34:03 -  How would we have begun? Unaccustomed to public speaking as I am. I want to take this occasion to say that I represent the gospel.
34:12 -  He didn't begin by any conventional means. He began by the wisdom of God appropriate for that moment expressed by God's Spirit. To one who counted all things as dung, including his own intellect, his own mentality, his own cleverness, his own devices.
34:29 -  I perceive that in all things you're too superstitious. For as I pass by and beheld your devotions, I found an altar with the inscription to the unknown God, whom therefore you ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you.
34:43 -  How do you like them apples? Bold by the Spirit of God, original by the Spirit of God, cutting and compelling by the Spirit of God. And we don't have the time to review this.
35:02 -  You look at it and you know what you're going to find when you read his actual statement that he made? It wasn't at all religious. It was utterly philosophical. He spoke about the purpose of existence, that God has established bounds and nations
35:14 -  and has given of all men one blood for one purpose, that they might seek after God, that happily they might find him. He spoke to philosophers philosophically, appropriately, because God is always appropriate. If we get out of the cotton-picking way and let him be it.
35:37 -  Well, you know what happened when they heard of the resurrection of the dead? Some mocked and others said, we will hear thee again in this matter. Likely they never did. So Paul departed from among them.
35:45 -  Do you depart when men are no longer listening? I think I've started more Jews on the path to the Gospel by turning on my heel and walking away from them than demonstrating to them my cleverness in manipulating the Scriptures.
35:59 -  I am not in the business of vain disputation. And when men are no longer hearing, I am no longer speaking. I remember I came to a Southern city and they arranged a luncheon between me and a Jewish business magnate.
36:14 -  No one could reach him. He was tough. But maybe cats will bring him down. And so he was willing for a little contest and he invited us to lunch. I remember munching on that lunch and I did not say boo.
36:29 -  And finally this man got a bit irritated. He said, how are you enjoying your free lunch? I said, I want you to know that this lunch for me is very costly. I had already discerned his spirit and it stank.
36:45 -  He said, aren't you going to say anything to me? I said, no. How come? I said, if God is not speaking, I have no intention myself either. I've seen a lot of stunned Jewish faces who have discerned for the first time that this Gospel is precious
37:06 -  because I would not share it with them if they had only a mind to dispute. So Paul departed from among them, howbeit certain men clave unto him and believed, among the which was Dionysius the Areopagite and a woman named Damaris and others with them.
37:23 -  Just a little episode in the life of Paul caught between assignments being taken by other men fleeing from persecution, brought to Mars Hill, utterly consequential confrontation with the intellectuals of his generation. Some scoffed and mocked and others said, we'll hear again. They never did.
37:41 -  One or two believed Dionysius. That means a follower of Bacchus, the God, the pagan deity of revelry and sensual gratification. He believed. Any of you guys ever been to Paris? You ever been up in the Latin Quarter there on the left bank?
37:59 -  You ever been up to Montmartre where they have the art exhibitions out in the open? I only recently found out what Montmartre means, the Mount of the Martyr. And you know whose blood was spilled there when he came by the same spirit
38:16 -  to persuade men of the terror of God, the same Dionysius whom Paul brought to the Lord in Athens, poured out his blood for some Gallic pagans on a mount which is now called Montmartre, right near Pigalle in the red light district in the entertainment of still a great pagan land.
38:37 -  Where are the Dionysiases of our generation who will go up to the mount even if it means they'll not come down again? And I want to tell you folks, it might have been the same for Paul. He may never have come back from Mars Hill, but I think he long ago resolved the issue
38:52 -  that whether he was coming back or no, if God brought him to a mount of martyrdom, he was well prepared to end there. Such a one is this, a man in whom the spirit of God is. And I want to give you a sketch of just what kind of man God is speaking about and God is seeking.
39:12 -  Look at the fifth verse of the sixteenth chapter. And so were the churches established in the faith and increased in number daily. Now when they had gone throughout Phrygia and the regions of Galatia,
39:22 -  and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia, and after they would come to Mysia they are saved to go into Bithynia, but the spirit suffered them not. And they passing by Mysia came down to Tross, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night.
39:34 -  There stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him saying, Come over into Macedonia and help us. I ought to be struck by lightning right now for having the gall, the temerity to read the Holy Word of God as I just did.
39:51 -  If we weren't on such a time schedule, we should have allowed these words to go forth as a rare vintage, and rolled them upon our tongues, and savored every syllable. Because how many of you have taken note that in those few verses,
40:04 -  there are three manifestations of the Holy Spirit described? I'll tell you what's bugging me. I don't know whether it's because I'm Jewish or not,
40:16 -  but I am grieved by the lackadaisical way that we treat the prophetic and divine utterances of God by the Spirit in our congregations. You would think that an utterance in tongue or interpretation or a prophecy
40:30 -  is some matter of fact happenstance that we expect to punctuate every service. It's part of the trimmings. I'll tell you that I'm still Jewish enough that if God speaks divinely, I'm ready to be on my face.
40:51 -  Three manifestations of the Holy Spirit, and we can whiz through it as if we're reading some cheap manual. There are people sitting in this audience tonight, and certainly over the whole of Christendom,
41:05 -  who have never experienced one manifestation of the Holy Spirit in 10 or 20 or 30 years of believing life. How is it then that these manifestations were so liberally poured upon
41:19 -  the apostolic men of that generation? And what strange and unusual manifestations. They were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia.
41:29 -  Hey, that's not God. We're establishing the churches daily and succeeding. That's Satan trying to get us away from a rich and rewarding area of ministry.
41:42 -  How sharp are your discernments? And how many times have you labeled as being satanic divine speakings? Because it confounded your notion of what success is or what God is wanting.
41:58 -  How quick are we to pray for the sick, when it may be that God has a special dispensation of dealing with a particular soul and wants us to keep our cotton-picking hands off.
42:13 -  Bunch of mechanical clods playing with a new charismatic toy. And we would have argued with God and said, the Spirit of God will never contradict His own word.
42:25 -  And God has said in His word, go into all the world and preach this gospel to every creature. Oh yeah? When? Who? Where? By what means?
42:37 -  The God who gives the general invitation will also fill out the particular specifics. And until He does, I ain't going anywhere. But when He does, woe is me if I forbid not to preach the gospel.
42:57 -  Oh children, God has a plan and He has a time and He's waiting for a man to fulfill it. Who can be stopped in the field of their own success? How do you like them apples?
43:16 -  And if you think God measures success as you measure it, you've got another thing coming. If you think you can measure it because every pew is filled
43:25 -  and every budget accounted for and every service groovy and delightful, you've got another thing coming.
43:32 -  Spend the afternoon that I've spent today in your own backyard and go to the Washington State Hospital and see the schizophrenics and the vegetables and the deranged.
43:45 -  And go to an old age home and seek out some Jewish lady who's a bundle of bones and nerves and try to speak to her something that would be divine, that would save her from a course with death.
43:59 -  See the lonely and the dejected and the crestfallen and the broken. Let your vision go beyond these walls. And we'll see just how successful we are.
44:13 -  But I'll tell you that when God can arrest a man in the midst of his success, he's got the man. They were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia
44:24 -  and they came to mind that they tried to go into Bosnia, but the Spirit suffered them not. We always think of the Holy Spirit, go, go, go.
44:33 -  Have you ever thought of the Holy Spirit as stop, stop, stop? Bunch of eager beavers wanting to do, do, do for God and yourselves, thank you.
44:47 -  I had to take one of our young brothers to Yugoslavia and Germany and East Germany for six weeks of ministry. It was a ministry to the nations.
44:56 -  It was apostolic glory, you'll never hear anything about it. The greatest ministries, you'll never hear anything about it. They're unsung, they're unheralded, they're inconspicuous, they're unseen.
45:06 -  You got a stomach for that? And I said to this 21-year-old brother, who when he came back six weeks later said,
45:14 -  I went, he said, as a zealous evangelical and I returned as the resurrected Christ. May we all come and go in the same way.
45:23 -  I said, supposing now at this last minute I leave you here and I decide to choose yet another brother, what do you think of that?
45:30 -  He said, Artie said, I've come to a place where it's all the same to me, whether I go or stay. I said, praise God, I'll take you.
45:39 -  Hallelujah. Oh children, when we will get out of it, when we will really have gone into the earth and died,
45:49 -  when there'll no longer be the taint of flesh in our zealousness and our so-called concerns, when the God who sees our hearts will know
45:58 -  that there's nothing there that's vain or egotistical that will subtly steal from his glory, when he'll know that he'll have men who have been brought back from the dead
46:06 -  who have no life unto themselves and who could be moved about like Jack in the box and be brought to Athens by other men
46:12 -  who have not to prepare their strategies or their programs or their plans, then we shall see again apostolic splendor and glory. A vision appeared to Paul in the night.
46:25 -  A man of Macedonia prayed him saying, come over into Macedonia and help us. Why don't we see such visions, Art?
46:32 -  Are you in a position to go? Are you in a position to bring help? With what are your prayers most commonly occupied?
46:39 -  Isn't it yourself? Lord, forgive me again, I blew it. Oh Lord, I did the piece of flesh, that's right.
46:46 -  Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, help me, do for me, me, me, me. I was looking at your posters the other day, except for number one, Jesus is Lord, his word teaches me.
46:55 -  Jesus is Lord, he knows me. Jesus is Lord, he loves me. Jesus is Lord, he listens to me.
47:00 -  Jesus is Lord, he forgives me. He gives me new life. He lives in me, me, me, me, me, me.
47:07 -  It's true. But children, if you're still egocentric and your whole understanding of the faith
47:15 -  is the benefit which accrues to you, you've missed the greatest salvation of God. He came to save us from egocentrism,
47:24 -  not to give us a new brand that's spiritual. He wants men who are dead unto themselves, and it doesn't matter to them whether it's Bithynia
47:34 -  or Philippi or Timbuktu or Athens or seen or heard or not seen, not heard. A man in whom the Spirit of God is,
47:44 -  pits, dungeons, unjust accusations, two years more, it's all the same. Who can receive a vision
47:58 -  because they're in a position to give help. And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavored to go into Macedonia,
48:07 -  assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us for to preach the gospel unto them. Therefore, losing from trust,
48:13 -  we came with a straight course to Samothraecia and the next day to Neapolis, and with a sense to Philippi, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia,
48:19 -  and a colony. Oh, glorious words. Don't they just come out of the page
48:24 -  and strike you in the eyes? Assuredly gathering, loosing from Troas, setting forth with a straight course,
48:32 -  they came to the chief city. What a different tenor to those words from the kinds of icky syllables and phrases
48:41 -  that are current in our own modern day. Maybe if, it depends, I guess, equivocation, compromise, setting forth with a straight course.
48:53 -  They came to the chief city, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called them. Why didn't it say that the vision came to Paul?
49:02 -  How is it then that after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavored to go? I'll tell you how come, you loners,
49:10 -  and you spiritual hotshots, and you ride us off into the sunset. We're going to do great deeds from God,
49:16 -  independent of other men. There's a pattern here that God cherishes of men who are intricately and deeply related to other men,
49:27 -  established by His Spirit in apostolic bands, heads over bodies, that when the head receives the vision,
49:36 -  the body assuredly gathers that the Lord had called us. And therefore they can set forth with a straight course. And I'll tell you that if you'll not be assured
49:49 -  assuredly determined. You know what's going to happen when the first foul thing happens
49:56 -  and things go awry and the first wind of persecution and the first phase,
50:00 -  Lord, I blew it, I missed it. Maybe I was out of your will. God wants you to know
50:06 -  that you're to set forth with a straight course, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called you, because you are intimately and profoundly
50:14 -  and realistically and truly spiritually joined to a head of a body who receives the vision of God. I was telling the fellows that I mentioned this last night
50:27 -  about the $5,000 check that came to us in the midst of our poverty. But did I tell you my wife's reaction
50:33 -  when we had the final discussion that day in the community about whether we should indeed send this off to Jerusalem when we ourselves had pressing needs?
50:39 -  And it's interesting how quick some of the women were to find the scriptures that said that you're worse than a heathen if you don't provide for your own house.
50:47 -  I remember one of the young disciples, a Jewish brother, said that evening in the discussion. He said, I don't purport to hear what Art has heard.
50:55 -  God didn't speak to me when he spoke to him, but he's my elder. I'm related to him. I'm joined to him.
51:01 -  And I say that if Art believes that God has said that we're to give that money away, then I think that we should do it. I go with him.
51:08 -  And my wife could not contain herself any longer and cried out, How can you trust that man? She's speaking out of some painful experience
51:23 -  who has moved something like 10 times in 12 years, has had to live in Israel and to be ejected out of the land in humiliation and in Denmark,
51:34 -  and now has to move out to a remote area in northern Minnesota and give up her gorgeous home. How can you trust that man?
51:44 -  How do you know we're supposed to go to Minnesota? How do you know we were supposed to go to Israel? And you know there are some times when you have to go,
51:53 -  what to God that he had a lot of voice. I have had to trust the still, small voice of God. And if I perish, my family goes down with me,
52:06 -  65 souls who are joined with us in 50° below zero winters in that northern outpost. He who has seen the vision had better be assured
52:19 -  he has seen the vision. And if he's a man like Paul who has no life unto himself, no ambition for himself, no intentions for himself,
52:28 -  and he's on God's divine course, he will assuredly receive it. So they came to the chief city. You want to hear him blow it?
52:36 -  And on the Sabbath in the 13th verse, we went out of the city by the riverside where prayer was wont to be made,
52:42 -  and we sat down and spoke unto the women which resorted there. Oh, Paul! Man, God brings you all the way from Asia to Europe,
52:52 -  and on the Shabbat, the heaviest night of the week, the whole town is out, the synagogues are bursting at the seams, and you go out of the city?
53:04 -  Where does it say that the Spirit of God said, Paul, get thee out of the city? It doesn't.
53:10 -  And I bet that there was nothing more than this, than Paul just had an inkling. He just had a hunch.
53:19 -  He just had an intimation. But it was a holy intimation. It was a holy hunch.
53:28 -  And he was required to act upon it, even though it contradicted every evangelical rule and wisdom. They went out of the city where women resorted for prayer.
53:40 -  And you know what happened? The woman got saved there and was baptized a seller of purple and constrained them to come in and to fellowship with them.
53:49 -  All the way to Europe for one woman? Leaving behind churches that were being built and added to daily for one woman?
53:59 -  Oh, I could tell you stories, children. I could tell you of the Gospel outreach in City College of New York, 85% Jewish,
54:06 -  where my head was handed to me, where rabbis took me on and made me look like a fool and cut me down to size.
54:13 -  And I was left like a trembling Hulk when the word fell out of my mouth, limply and dead to the floor without anointing.
54:20 -  Devastated by the disappointment of God, not to honor my fast and my prayer for a meeting that was months in preparation,
54:27 -  the first Gospel outreach in the history of that Jewish institution, with a vision that the fire of God was going to fall
54:35 -  and the Jewish students would take it into their neighborhoods. And the only thing that fell was the limp word that came out of my mouth, plop.
54:42 -  But you should have heard the anointing on the rabbis. Talk about the Jewish mafia. Talk about words that could kill and cut.
54:51 -  But the most painful thing of all was the disappointed faces of the Christian brethren. They didn't say a word with the God they had.
55:00 -  Cats, we thought you were anointed, mouthpiece. We thought God had given you a ministry of encounter. What's the matter, man, don't you know how to pray?
55:08 -  Do you ever hear of fasting? Have secret sin in your life? And I could not answer them a word
55:15 -  because God was not giving me a word of explanation. Listen, children, will you go without explanation? Will you do without explanation?
55:25 -  Will you be foolishly used of God without explanation? Will you suffer disappointment without explanation? Are you willing to wear the crown of thorns
55:34 -  that you might wear the crown of glory? You're not going to have the one if you're not willing for the other.
55:41 -  And for three weeks I sulked and licked my wounds. And there was Satan at my elbow saying, Cats, you blew it.
55:47 -  You never should have left the teaching profession. Whoever thought that, what made you think you were called to ministry
55:51 -  to your own Jewish people? God gave you a grand opportunity. You were pitiful.
55:55 -  You couldn't answer those Jews. It was a failure. There'll never be such another opportunity.
56:00 -  And I sulked and whimpered for three weeks until there was a phone call. Mr. Cat, the sin voice said,
56:07 -  I read your book, I'm a Jewish woman. Could I come over? I've got some questions.
56:11 -  I said, lady, I can't answer a thing. Can't you find somebody else? So she came over with her veins sticking out
56:20 -  and her eyes sunken in her skull, a nervous wreck, compulsive chain smoker, and asked me questions
56:25 -  and filled up my ashtray with cigarettes. And the last question was, Mr. Cat, what must I do to be saved?
56:33 -  And I told her, believe on the Lord, Yeshua Hamashiach, Jesus the Christ, and thou shalt be saved in thy house.
56:40 -  And so she bowed her skinny little neck and followed me in a prayer for salvation and has gone on from death to life
56:47 -  to distribute New Testaments and Christian literature and Ben Israel's in her apartment house
56:51 -  in New York City. And as I'm putting a coat on her frail shoulders that night, walking to the door,
56:56 -  I said, by the way, I said, how did you get my book and how did you come here?
56:59 -  Oh, she said, my son was at your meeting three weeks ago at City College. He came home so excited.
57:04 -  He said, mommy, a man came to the school today, a Jewish man, and he just simply stood up and spoke his convictions.
57:13 -  And the moment he finished, he was mercilessly attacked, and he answered his accusers, not a word.
57:19 -  I've never seen anything like it. Here, read his book. The eye of God rose to and fro
57:28 -  over the face of the earth, seeking that one whose heart is perfect toward him.
57:36 -  What are you looking for? Numbers? Can you be moved from your success
57:42 -  for one? God gave me an experience in Japan. It spoiled me.
57:49 -  I'll never be the same. God showed me the Jewishness of the face in Oriental believers.
57:53 -  I've never seen such unparalleled glory. I've never seen such freedom. I've never seen such spontaneity.
57:58 -  I've never seen such fervent love. I've never heard such prayer and travail as came from that body of Japanese saints.
58:04 -  The tabernacle movement, so-called because they don't own buildings, sitting on their haunches on floors
58:10 -  in crowded rooms, sliding their doors. What glory! And I looked at the wife
58:19 -  of the founder of that movement. She was so beautiful I couldn't take my eyes from her.
58:23 -  It was an embarrassment. It was compulsive. And one day I had an unparalleled opportunity.
58:27 -  They placed me behind a post and I could look around. They just bask in the glory of her beauty.
58:31 -  And you know, as I had this opportunity, I saw that it was not her natural features that constituted her beauty.
58:36 -  There was such a glow and Godly vibrancy in that life and that face that it was divine glory.
58:43 -  What a beauty! And when the conference was over I was being driven to another one of their tabernacles
58:48 -  where these passes were interchangeable at a half hour's notice. Take their few possessions and go.
58:53 -  And we're driving down the Japanese freeway or toll road. And I said, I mentioned something
58:59 -  about the beauty of this man's wife. Oh, he said, Artie said, don't you know the story?
59:03 -  I said, what story? Oh, he said, well, Professor Toshima's wife was a syphilitic
59:09 -  when he first met her. She was dying from syphilis. She was in the advanced stages of the disease.
59:15 -  She had been sold by her parents as a concubine to a man who had four other wives. And when he first began his ministry,
59:21 -  she used to taunt him and mock him and throw his words back in his teeth when he talked about God and his love.
59:27 -  Easy for you to say. You're handsome, you're favored, you're well-spoken, but look at me, my beauty is ravaged.
59:34 -  I'm a waste for a woman who had to sit after every 10 steps to catch her breath. And how this man travailed in prayer
59:40 -  for this one woman. And God said to him, marry her. And when he proposed,
59:46 -  she thought he had lost his marbles. But she accepted. And when she became pregnant,
59:53 -  unbeknownst to him, she had an abortion because she was convinced that the baby would be born blind
59:58 -  or otherwise deformed. And when he heard that, he was grieved and made it a promise
01:00:03 -  that when she would be pregnant again, she would not arrest this birth. When the baby was born,
01:00:08 -  he was born perfect. And his name is Isaiah Tishima. Though your sins be red as scarlet,
01:00:16 -  yet shall they be made white as snow. And the woman was examined, her disease was gone,
01:00:22 -  and her professor never contracted it. And what a beauty, what a glory of redemption
01:00:28 -  because of the love of this man for an ugly syphilitic. And we were just coming to the toll booth
01:00:32 -  and the car stopped. And I said, almost out of breath, I said, but this movement is so powerful,
01:00:37 -  it's spreading through Japan and they don't have any evangelistic outreach. God adds to that church,
01:00:41 -  daily such as should be saved. And they have such an impress in Israel, there's not a Christian movement in the world
01:00:47 -  that has had the access and the love of the people in Israel at that Japanese movement.
01:00:52 -  When the missionaries left in that six-day war, when it looked like curtains for Israel,
01:00:56 -  Professor Tishima loaded up a jet and flew to Israel to stand with them in their moment of crisis.
01:01:03 -  I said, how could this man have been willing to risk this great ministry and this movement for one woman?
01:01:10 -  Oh, the brother said, as he paid the toll and turned to look at me at the back seat,
01:01:14 -  he said, unless you're willing, he said, to cast your ministry away for one, you have no ministry.
01:01:22 -  And I just spiritually slumped off the seat and lay whimpering on the floor of that Japanese car, utterly smashed.
01:01:32 -  God took men away from a successful field of venture, arrested them and stopped them.
01:01:37 -  The spirit suffered them not to continue that a woman who sells purple in a city of Philippi might be found
01:01:44 -  on the day of the Shabbat outside the city and there receive the word of God unto salvation. A man in whom the spirit of God is.
01:01:56 -  They came to pass as we went to prayer in the sixteenth verse, a certain damsel possessed
01:02:00 -  with a spirit of divination met us, which brought her masses much gained by soothsaying.
01:02:04 -  And the same followed Paul and us and cried, saying, these men are the servants
01:02:07 -  of the Most High God which show unto us the way of salvation. Can you hear that ugly pitch,
01:02:12 -  that cracked, demoniacal voice? It sends chills up your spine. But Paul, being grieved, turned
01:02:19 -  and said to the spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her
01:02:23 -  and he came out the same hour. It doesn't say Paul being bugged, Paul being irritated,
01:02:29 -  Paul being grieved. You say, Art, when I'll see a demoniacal woman
01:02:36 -  whose life is not her own, I'll also be grieved. So what's the matter already?
01:02:42 -  What about the ones all around you whose voices may not be high pitched or cracked or shrill,
01:02:48 -  but are their lives any more their own than this woman's? What's the matter with the idolatry
01:02:53 -  that is everywhere about you? Why isn't his spirit wincing in your spirit?
01:02:57 -  Where is that grief, born of the love of God, that makes faith into power
01:03:03 -  to set the captives free? The faith which worketh by love, not our human thing pumped up,
01:03:10 -  but the divine fervency of God that flows in the lives of those who have put away
01:03:17 -  their shabby, sentimental, and temperamental substitutes. May God keep me from another back slap
01:03:24 -  and bear hug or any other kind of pseudo-expression of affection,
01:03:30 -  except there be a burning fervency in my heart by His Spirit for the man to whom
01:03:35 -  He would bring me in embrace. May they think me a cold fish, may they think me unloving,
01:03:41 -  and they do. May I suffer the reproach of being a man
01:03:46 -  who is supposed to be unloving, and I suffer it, that I don't allow
01:03:50 -  any shabby, schmaltzy, sentimental substitute to stand as a good thing
01:03:55 -  to deter the perfect divine fervency of God that takes faith
01:04:00 -  and makes it alive to set the captives free. I don't give a rat
01:04:06 -  for the so-called love for Israel that so many Christians are purport to have,
01:04:10 -  who wear their stickers on their bumpers until the oil crisis comes.
01:04:16 -  And then it's oil, yes, and Jews, no. All those Christians who palpitate
01:04:24 -  for the beautiful Israelis that they mean how they love the Jews who have never witnessed once
01:04:29 -  to the Jew who lives down their block in their American city. Shabby, sentimental substitute
01:04:36 -  for the divine fervor of God. Paul being grieved, or it would be better to say,
01:04:42 -  God being grieved in Paul. And may God keep me from my own sentimental things
01:04:49 -  until his grief finds expression through me. If he can't speak two languages
01:04:55 -  out of one mouth, he certainly is not going to pump two griefs through one frame.
01:05:01 -  It's either him or us, folks, and I've determined that it's going to be him.
01:05:11 -  And of course that spirit came out when the masters saw that the hope of their gains was gone.
01:05:14 -  They caught Paul and Silas and drew them into the marketplace and to the rulers
01:05:17 -  and brought them to the magistrates saying these men being Jews, hallelujah. This is the definition.
01:05:22 -  Not by the stars of David. It's not by the pastrami, the good filter fish, the locks,
01:05:26 -  or anything else that you consume. These men being Jews do exceedingly trouble our city
01:05:33 -  and teach customs which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe being Romans.
01:05:37 -  And the multitude rose up together against them and the magistrates rent up their clothes
01:05:41 -  and commanded to beat them. And when they had laid many stripes upon them,
01:05:44 -  they cast them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely, who having received such a charge,
01:05:49 -  thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in the stock. Can you picture us that day?
01:05:58 -  Lord, how did we miss it? We thought we had a divine vision. And look at us now, publicly humiliated,
01:06:06 -  clothes rent from our bodies as orthodox Jews, 39 strokes of a fearful instrument
01:06:11 -  that has left our backs hanging in strips, cast into a filthy, stinking dungeon that reeks from human excretion
01:06:19 -  and from urine, the scurrying of rats and vermin and the moans and groans of prisoners.
01:06:25 -  Where did we fail? That's your reward when you set the captives free.
01:06:31 -  Those that live Godly lives in Christ shall suffer persecution. But at midnight,
01:06:39 -  in the depths of the darkness, in the greatest aloneness, Satan breathing all kinds of words
01:06:47 -  of discouragement and failure. You missed it. You should never have left Asia.
01:06:51 -  What are you doing out here? Anyhow, this is just some pagan outreach. So you got a woman saved.
01:06:57 -  Look how you missed it. God was building the church. At midnight,
01:07:01 -  do you have a stomach to be brought to the place where God would have you at midnight?
01:07:07 -  Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God. And the prisoners heard them.
01:07:16 -  And I'm expecting to see every one of the prisoners in heaven. Oh, that the prisoners might hear us, children.
01:07:23 -  Not our little bleat and our little evangelisms and our little tract distribution.
01:07:27 -  May they hear the praise of God's people. Not when our stomachs are full and we're well clothed
01:07:32 -  and fashionable and sitting in comfort in the company of the saints.
01:07:36 -  May they hear our praise in the midst of our distress and our duress and our affliction.
01:07:42 -  As most assuredly they will. Because I don't think that the Lord is going to
01:07:48 -  conveniently take us to be saved from a time of distress. But that this will be the hour
01:07:56 -  of the Church's greatest glory. Those who can praise Him at midnight. Erne Baxter said
01:08:07 -  when God's people find the paradox of joy and suffering, they'll sing at midnight.
01:08:14 -  And sure enough, wasn't there one to come after me last night to make sure that you don't go home
01:08:18 -  with your feelings hurt? You don't go home heavy, that somehow you'll be reminded
01:08:24 -  and sort of cheered up. What's the matter with going home heavy? What's the matter with letting a heavy word
01:08:31 -  reverberate in your spirit? What's the matter with being brought down into a pit
01:08:35 -  into a dungeon for a season if it shall please the Lord to put iron in your soul there?
01:08:41 -  Send them home happy. Oh, watch out, you may have bruised the sheep. I'll tell you that this kind of praise
01:08:50 -  does not come just by charismatic exercise. It's the same kind of praise that Jehoshaphat sent
01:08:57 -  in front of the army of Israel that day that they had to tangle those three armies of the uncircumcised.
01:09:02 -  They sent forth the sweet singers of Israel who can praise God in the beauty of holiness. And you don't learn that from a songbook.
01:09:10 -  And it's got not to do with virtuosity or the timbre of your voice. It's got to do with the knowledge of God,
01:09:18 -  which is not cheap or conveniently obtained. This kind of praise and this kind of man
01:09:27 -  is not fashioned in the day. And suddenly there was a great earthquake. What a coincidence.
01:09:38 -  So that the foundations of the prison were shaken and immediately all the doors were open and everyone's bands were loose.
01:09:44 -  Not a coincidence, folks. It's because God inhabits the praises of His people.
01:09:49 -  Where the Spirit of God is, there is liberty. And He will be there in proportion to the authenticity of your praise
01:09:55 -  in the midst of the direness of your distress. We who can't crack our faces when we get back the wrong income tax returns
01:10:04 -  or get stood up by the boyfriend, how shall we do when our backs are hanging in strips? In excruciating pain
01:10:11 -  where we can't even adjust our posture because our feet have been made fast and stuck. We who have been squirted
01:10:20 -  and sprayed and spritzed with underarm deodorants and powder and pampered,
01:10:25 -  how are we being so prepared for the eventualities that must come to those who are obedient
01:10:31 -  to the heavenly vision? Suffering must follow obedience. And you can say, I said so.
01:10:43 -  But the prisoners heard them, and the earthquake shook the bars, and the fetters fell off,
01:10:49 -  and everyone's bands were loosed. And the keeper of the prison, awakening out of his sleep.
01:10:56 -  Hallelujah! That Jewish guy with his Social Security and his savings account
01:11:01 -  and his bank book and his meager security, the guy, the Christian guy
01:11:05 -  who keeps his nose clean, the respectable Christian, awakening out of his sleep,
01:11:09 -  the nominal and the superficially religious, awakening out of their sleep. It's going to take an earthquake.
01:11:16 -  And we have got to be the ones who will precipitate it. Seeing the prison doors open,
01:11:23 -  he drew to sort of kill himself, supposing the prisoners had been fled. But Paul cried to the Lord,
01:11:27 -  saying, do thyself no harm, for we are all here. Call it.
01:11:31 -  We haven't gone anywhere. We're no more prisoner now than we were before.
01:11:35 -  Because bars do not a prison make. To be free in Christ is to be free in deed.
01:11:45 -  And if Christ has brought you to a cell, you're free in it. When the doors burst open,
01:11:53 -  there's no disposition to run. You're as free within as you are without. It's the man who holds the keys
01:11:59 -  who's bound. Paul cried with a loud voice. I don't know if he could even see him,
01:12:07 -  but he saw by the Spirit. Then he called for a light. Hallelujah.
01:12:14 -  And sprang in and came trembling and fell down before Paul in silence. This is the anatomy of conversion,
01:12:19 -  not cheap salvation. This is a life and a family that is going to be transformed.
01:12:28 -  Not some guy who is superficially saved, who goes on just as fleshly and carnally as he was before.
01:12:36 -  He called for a light and sprang in and said, what must I do to be saved?
01:12:43 -  You want a picture of pathetic pitifulness? It was Art Katz, a teacher, humanist giving answers to students
01:12:50 -  who had not yet asked the questions. What a picture of so many of us giving answers to men
01:12:57 -  who have not yet asked the question. Our Bumbers loaded with stickers for answers for men
01:13:03 -  who have not yet asked the question. When our function ought to be to bring men to a divine discontent,
01:13:09 -  that they say, sir, what must I do to be saved? And he told them and took them the same hour.
01:13:16 -  He washed their stripes, baptized him in all his house straight away. When he had brought them into his house,
01:13:21 -  he said, meet before them and rejoice, believing in God with all his heart. A little episode in the life of a man
01:13:27 -  in whom the Spirit of God is. Stopped by the Holy Spirit, directed by visions,
01:13:35 -  he never did see that Macedonian man, but God put him on the divine course. Kicked out of the city,
01:13:41 -  persecuted in Thessalonica, brought by other men to Athens and route to somewhere else,
01:13:47 -  his spirit winces, and God is off again in divine encounter of eternal consequence.
01:13:53 -  Oh, children, God is looking for a man in whom the Spirit of God is. Waiting for a vision
01:14:05 -  of someone who will call you at night bidding you come, are you in a position to bring the help?
01:14:12 -  Will you set forth with a straight course, assuredly gathering that the Lord has called you and assuredly reckoning
01:14:20 -  that your obedience is going to be rewarded with suffering? And in the midst of it, will you praise God?
01:14:27 -  In the midst of the stink and the dung and the vermin and the crawling and the discomfort,
01:14:33 -  will you praise God that the prisoners might hear you? That can't be done by fleshly exercise or choruses,
01:14:42 -  but by men in whom the Spirit of God is. Such a man is not fashioned in a day. Are you willing to be enrolled
01:14:50 -  in the apostolic school? Are you willing to give away your best that you might touch this glory
01:14:57 -  with which this age must definitely end? It shall end in the same apostolic glory as it began through men in whom the Spirit of God is.
01:15:09 -  I want you to bow your head, because God did not speak these things to bring you an entertainment.
01:15:18 -  He's recruiting tonight looking for men, apostolic men
01:15:28 -  who have no morbid appetite for suffering, but realistic anticipation that this is the consequence of obedience
01:15:36 -  to their heavenly vision and are willing to be arrested and stopped in the midst of their successes,
01:15:43 -  that God could bring them them where He will, even for one. And if you are such a one
01:15:51 -  and want to be established in the school of preparation for suffering and for martyrdom,
01:15:57 -  for going up to hills from which you may not come down, I ask you to stand right now
01:16:04 -  and settle it with the Lord. You're finished. You're finished.
01:16:12 -  If you think it's going to be your wit, your cleverness, your ability, your evangelical expertise,
01:16:22 -  He'll empty you. He'll bring you to the school of humiliation. He'll bring you to impasses
01:16:29 -  that you'll not be able to explain to others because He has not explained it to you. And He'll ask you to praise Him
01:16:36 -  in that circumstance that the prisoners might hear you. Is there a soul here who's had a gutful
01:16:44 -  of phony burdens that are not heartfelt, so-called love for the Jews that is sentimental and shabby,
01:16:51 -  but you've never experienced a divine burden of God that burns and will not let you go?
01:17:00 -  Are you willing to be a vessel through whom the grief of God can be expressed and make you to seem like an ungainly freak
01:17:09 -  in the way that God would have you to respond to it, calling men ignorant, telling them that their spirits stink?
01:17:21 -  You'll be a reproach and an off scouring, a shame and a scandal even to Christians. They'll tell you that you blew it.
01:17:32 -  And what are you doing in a cell anyhow when God had you in a groovy ministry that was successful?
01:17:39 -  Precious God, in the name of Jesus, if this has been the word of truth tonight out of your heart,
01:17:46 -  and this has not been the exercise of a man, if this has been the cry of God looking for a man,
01:17:59 -  calling us to the apostolic conclusion of the age that I ask you to seal by name every soul that has stood to their feet
01:18:08 -  to this invitation tonight. And Lord, I don't ask that you spare them. You've not spared me,
01:18:15 -  and I'm only at the beginning of these things. We're not asking that you have to give us an explanation, Lord, to take the sting out of our humiliation.
01:18:26 -  We're just asking, Lord, you who know our frame, shape us. Cut away all the so-called good things
01:18:36 -  where we find ourselves stuttering at platforms, unable to conduct church, except you be our expertise,
01:18:45 -  willing to suffer services that fail, rather than we should manipulate men and get things moving
01:18:54 -  to give the appearance of something that looks spiritual, which is only a soulless counterfeit, rather to experience failure and disappointment
01:19:05 -  because we are determined and have covenanted only for the glory of God by the Spirit. Oh, precious God, hallelujah.
01:19:14 -  Seal us, Lord, with this divine call. We know that you mean business, that you're going to deal with us where we are,
01:19:25 -  that we are going to be shaken to the foundation. You're going to show us every substitute counterfeit thing, Lord, that we have been pleased with heretofore.
01:19:36 -  You're going to strip us. You're going to make us barren, that you might raise up and bring forth a man
01:19:46 -  in whom the Spirit of God is.