Psalm 78 2

00:00 -  We need to be conscious of how much the spirit of demand is operative in the church, consciously or unconsciously. That's how we evaluate its ministers and dismiss them in our hearts because they don't meet
00:16 -  our expectation. If you want to read a statement of definitive church, read Bonhoeffer in Life Together where he says it's a privilege just to be in fellowship with the saints as sinners being saved by
00:33 -  God. It's a privilege to hear the word of God coming from another brother, not preaching, just in counsel or just in conversation is a grace.
00:45 -  So he is so foundationally grateful, making no demand and receiving whatever issues, however humble from another saint as being greatest privilege and our distinct distinction as saints in the church.
01:04 -  What an attitude. Think of us as Americans demanding, having certain criteria that we think ought to be met and being justified and being disappointed if it's not and in fact we're guilty of exactly
01:20 -  what we're now going to read about the Israel who could not believe that God could set a table in the wilderness. It may be that there are some of us in this room who don't believe that God can set a
01:31 -  table in this wilderness and we're just as ungrateful for this table as they were for their table because we are exactly identified with Israel in their sin and we need to see that.
01:44 -  Let's read this. They demanded the food that they craved. They spoke against God saying, can God spread a table in the wilderness?
01:54 -  Isn't that interesting the language here? They're raising a question but the psalmist inspired by the spirit says they spoke against God.
02:05 -  How do you speak against God by raising a question? Well because the question is shot through with attitudes contrary to God. He's raising the question of whether he in fact is God and that he's able under conditions
02:21 -  that you think inhospitable to establish a table in the wilderness. Can he feed two million in the wilderness? Can he feed us in this wilderness at this table?
02:35 -  Are we speaking against God even to raise the question in our hearts or to find fault with the table that he's spreading because we demand another kind. We came all this way and we want a payoff in a way that is more gratifying for what
02:54 -  we crave. Are you guys following me? Hey, this is not a little piece of academia here.
03:01 -  This is a perfect analogy to our own present condition in this place, in this wilderness at this table and we need to be instructed by their attitude because more than we know our own might be very much like it.
03:20 -  Nothing has changed. This is the human condition that faults God by even raising the question, can God spread a table in the wilderness?
03:30 -  I have an advantage of longer life and coming in the product of an earlier civilization where unlike the children of this generation, we were not asked what would we like to eat. We just ate what was put before us and we were grateful for it.
03:51 -  When we went for a haircut, we didn't tell the barber, I like it this way or that way. We sat down on a chair, we got a haircut. This generation, kids are already conscious of their, what do you call it, their kofir
04:06 -  and tell the barber exactly how they want it because they are children who have been accustomed to being asked, what do you want to eat? So that encourages demand, not only of men but of God and that is an offense and that
04:27 -  we are consciously performing it, it's in keeping with the whole tenor of our society, our life. They tested God in their heart by demanding the food that they craved rather than just
04:40 -  being grateful for whatever pleased the Lord together. It says elsewhere they ate angels' bread. If it's good enough for angels, it's not good enough for you.
04:50 -  You want variety? What, there was no ketchup available? We are spoiled so much more than we know and bring that spoiled disposition into the church
05:02 -  and into our attitudes at the church that makes us a little different from the Israel before us. So verse 20, having spoken against God, saying can God spread a table in the wilderness,
05:17 -  is he really capable? Even though he struck the rock so that water gushed out and torrents overflowed, can he also give bread and provide meat for his people?
05:29 -  If he can do the one, can he not do the other? That they said it even though they experienced the one and could not believe for the other. Therefore, when the Lord heard, he was full of rage.
05:43 -  Talk about the wrath of God. A fire was kindled against Jacob. His anger mounted against Israel because they had no faith in God and did not trust
05:54 -  his saving power. That ties right in with the Gospel, the revelation of the righteousness of God, saving to them that believe from faith to faith.
06:06 -  They had no faith. Is the Lord justified in being full of rage? A fire was kindled against Jacob and it may not be manifested until 1939 to 1945, but
06:22 -  it will surely be manifested. It was kindled then, but it's manifested now. God is not under obligation to bring retribution exactly on the heels of the sin.
06:35 -  He can delay the judgment, maybe even waiting for an acknowledgement and repentance to forestall it, but if it doesn't come, the fire that has been incited will fall. Got the picture?
06:49 -  He's under no obligation to make cause and effect simultaneous. He can withhold the effect, and in fact, he's patient and forbearing to do, hoping and waiting for some recognition of the sin that had kindled his wrath.
07:05 -  When it doesn't come, it will fall in the moment of his choosing and it will fall grievously as fire. How much are we storing up in the wrath of God by conduct and attitudes that he's not
07:22 -  immediately judging, but when he does, it will come down in one fell swoop grievously and that we have every reason to be careful of walking before him daily, knowing that if fire fell on Israel much later than the reason for it, it can fall upon us also.
07:42 -  That we must not allow a wrath to be stored up against ourselves that will come at a moment when we least expect it, but it will come. It will come as surely as it came for Israel.
07:52 -  It will come for us. How much more than knowing the terror of sin? This is what Paul is talking about.
07:58 -  I persuade men. I know the history of my people. How much more than should we be careful and judicious in our present walk and the things
08:08 -  that we allow ourselves and attitudes that will one day be visited upon us in the moment of his choosing, when that wrath is full and if not being carried into eternity itself. So therefore when the Lord heard he was full of rage, the fire was kindled against Jacob.
08:31 -  His anger mounted against Israel because they had no faith in God. They could not believe that he could prepare a table in the wilderness and did not trust his saving power.
08:42 -  After already demonstrating his saving power in so remarkable a way, shall he fail with food if he has succeeded with water? Is the one more difficult than the other?
08:53 -  With man it's impossible, but with God nothing is impossible. A lack of faith is not just the absence of some helpful facility. It's a statement of sin that refuses to believe God, even in the face of his already demonstrated
09:11 -  grace. My Lord, that which is not of faith is sin. And have we brought that attitude here?
09:22 -  Can God establish a table in this wilderness? It won't be with the food that you crave. It will be with what he sets before us who knows our need and is able to fulfill it.
09:36 -  Don't be like those Russian ministers who stayed in the basement that would never come up to the service because the first message was not according to their craving. They want the church growth and how to succeed and here's this jerk coming with a message
09:49 -  about Paul's attitude toward widows and slaves. And their carcasses may be left in the wilderness, they'll never come through to Zion for that attitude of contempt, that they weren't happy with the table that God was setting.
10:12 -  We need to be grateful, saints, for whatever we get, you know that? We're deserving of nothing. God is not under obligation in any way to please us.
10:23 -  Whatever we get, we ought to be grateful. For us to say, I've heard that before, but you didn't hear it quite this way. And if you did hear it before, God evidently thinks you need to hear it again.
10:40 -  So our attitudes stink and no better than Israel. We're invited to repent just by reviewing their history and seeing our own attitudes as being so much like their own and it kindled God's wrath.
10:59 -  A fire was kindled against Jacob in his anger that mounted against Israel because they had no faith. How absolute that word is, no faith, not just inadequate faith, did not trust his saving
11:19 -  power, which is to cast aspersions not on God's impotence or inability, but upon his character. Got the idea?
11:28 -  Do you hear the difference? He had already demonstrated his power in water gushing from a rock, but then raising a question whether he's equally able to set a table is raising aspersions against his character.
11:46 -  And who are we snot noses to hold God in contempt if he doesn't meet our standard, which is to say, if we were God, we would do much better. I don't have a word for this.
12:02 -  This is effrontery. This is impotence. This is contempt.
12:07 -  This is, what's the word that came up in the reviews yesterday last night? Presumption. Presumption.
12:15 -  Who are you to think that you can best God? That you're more righteous than he, more moral, more able, more generous, that if you were setting the table you would do this, this, and this, and you're better than God?
12:30 -  It's a marvel that the stroke of God doesn't fall and blot us out entirely. And it did fall or we would have been blotted out. Can we appreciate that the more?
12:43 -  The stroke did fall. It could not be withheld. Why?
12:46 -  To withhold the stroke is for God to impugn his own holiness, to say that, well, it doesn't really matter. That's man.
12:56 -  You have to make allowances. Uh-uh. That stroke had to fall and it did fall on the only one who could bear it that should
13:03 -  have rightly come upon us. He was bruised for our iniquity because Jacob denotes a certain character of usurping, of heavy-handedness, of proud arrogance, of displacing another, and that character lurks and remains
13:25 -  until Jacob does become Israel. So it's probably appropriate that the word Jacob is given here because what Israel is exhibiting is not Israel.
13:36 -  It's not yet the Israel of God, though they have that name. They're really exhibiting their intrinsic Jacob character still. So it's altogether appropriate that he uses that word there, though in the very next statement
13:51 -  he uses Israel as well. They did not trust his saving power, yet he commanded the skies above and opened the doors of heaven.
14:02 -  It rained down on them, water to eat, he gave them the grain of heaven, mortals ate of the bread of angels, he sent them food in abundance, he caused the east wind to blow in the heavens, and by his power he let out the south wind.
14:17 -  He rained flesh upon them like dust, winged birds like the sand of the seas, he let them fall within their camp, all around their dwellings, and they ate and were all filled, and for he gave them what they craved.
14:29 -  Isn't that a remarkable provision that God could command these birds to fall around and about the encampments of Israel and give them meat? What they craved he gave them, but while the food was still in their mouths, the anger
14:47 -  of God rose against them, and he killed the strongest of them and laid low the flower of Israel. Can you love a God like this?
14:58 -  While the meat was in their mouth, the plague struck, gave them leanness in their souls, and actually killed the strongest of them and laid low the flower of Israel. What a judgment.
15:13 -  How serious was the offense that required a judgment that stripped Israel of its cream, of its finest young men, and future heroes of the faith were taken? So grievous was the sin that kindled God's wrath that it required this judgment.
15:32 -  The question is, is it as serious for us as it was for him? How grievous was the offense that they murmured and raised a question about his character and his saving power, which is to strike at the heart of God as God and to say that you're
15:51 -  not really God, not really deserving respect and worship, and that God said, oh, when you take an attitude like that and your attitude was not born in a day, you have been nurturing it day by day, growing in sullenness, growing in resentment, growing in unbelief and sarcasm
16:16 -  and criticism, until now it's come to full flower, and this is the judgment. It may well be that they were reprimanded even at the earliest ages by Moses, by Aaron, or by the wise and older men in their midst, and they didn't hearken.
16:32 -  And so when their cup of iniquity was full, just like the Canaanites before them, God's judgment fell as death, the wages of sin as death, and it fell not upon their weakest and the frailest, but their best.
16:48 -  The strongest of them, he laid low the flower of Israel. So who of us is safe, dear Saints, especially among the flower of Israel, the best candidates in the church today, the most impressive young candidates to really make a mark in the Christian
17:12 -  world? If God's judgment fell upon their best, we need to tremble that we will not be spared, and maybe all the more because to whom much was given, much was required and they failed.
17:28 -  Remember the statement in the Holocaust book that we have every reason to regard calamity as the judgment of God as a first consideration. Before an accident or a catastrophe in nature or in history is examined or explained in
17:45 -  any other way, the first and rightful consideration should be, is this a judgment of God? And for what reason might it have been given? After you have exhausted that question before God, then you're free to consider that it
17:59 -  might have been mere mishap or chance or some other explanation. But your first obligation, rightfully as a saint, is always to look at catastrophe as the hand of God in judgment, raising the question, what would have justified it?
18:15 -  And after you have exhausted that, then you can consider other alternatives. But I don't think you'll need to if you make that your first consideration. We ought to have a perpetual gratitude that we have been saved from the wrath of God,
18:32 -  and always living in that gratitude, with that consciousness, deserving of nothing. The fact that we have been extricated from judgment and live and have possibility in is pure gravy, pure gift, and that the only response is thankfulness, but that's so little
18:55 -  to be seen. That the first response, seeing these birds falling about their camp, should have been for them to go down on their faces with a cry of forgiveness, would, we thought you
19:07 -  could not set a table in the wilderness, but look what you have performed. Before we even touch it, we go down in gratitude and ask for forgiveness for murmuring against you as if you were not able or as if you didn't care to give.
19:23 -  But instead of that repentant response, they greedily devoured the new provision, and while the meat was in their teeth, God slew them, probably for the want of this kind of acknowledgement and repentant gratitude, because of a demanding attitude that we deserve.
19:45 -  Sinful nation, oh sinful nation, wicked, from the top of your head to the soles of your feet, you're shot through with corruption and swords that need to be bound up and nullified. The ass knows its owner, and the donkey its master's crib, but my people do not know,
20:00 -  do not understand. Every first statement of Isaiah is such an indictment against this nation, and it's an indictment that stands to this day.
20:09 -  It's not been acknowledged nor rectified, and the only way it can be rectified is by that blood. Let's try and complete this in the time that remains, Lord, so we've got a lot of text
20:22 -  left that in verse 32, in spite of all this, they still sinned. In spite of all this, they still sinned. My God, Lord, you're breaking our brains here.
20:36 -  And they did not believe in his wonders, and despite of his judgment that was visible, they still sinned, did not believe. So he made their days vanish like a breath, and their years in terror.
20:52 -  When he killed them, they sought for him and repented and sought God earnestly. They remembered that God was their rock, the most high God, their Redeemer. But they flattered him with their mouths, but they lied to him with their tongues.
21:04 -  Their heart was not steadfast toward him. They were not true to his covenant. And we had at the earliest examination of righteousness is covenant faithfulness.
21:17 -  So this is the epitome of unrighteousness, which is the issue of the heart that was not steadfast toward him. They were not true to his covenant.
21:28 -  That he, being compassionate, forgave their iniquity and did not destroy them. Often he restrained his anger and did not stir up all his wrath. He remembered that they were but flesh, a wind that passes and does not come again.
21:46 -  How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness and grieved him in the desert. They tested God again and again. They provoked the Holy One of Israel.
21:57 -  They did not keep in mind his power or the day when he redeemed them from the foe. When he displayed his signs in Egypt as miracles in the fields of Zon, he turned their rivers to blood, the Egyptians, so they could not drink of their streams.
22:12 -  He set among them swarms of flies which devoured them and frogs which destroyed them. He gave their crops to the caterpillar, the fruit of their labor to the locust. He destroyed their vines with hail, their sycamores with frost.
22:25 -  He gave over their cattle to the hail and their flock to thunderbolts. He let loose on them his fierce anger, wrath, indignation and distress. A company of destroying angels.
22:38 -  He made a path for his anger. He did not spare them from death, but he gave their lives over to the plague. He struck all the firstborn in Egypt, the first issue of their strength, and the tenths
22:48 -  of him. Then he led out his people like sheep and guided them into wilderness like a flock. He led them in safety so that they were not afraid, but the sea overwhelmed their enemies
23:01 -  and he brought them to his holy hill, to the mountain that his right hand had won. He drove out nations before them. He apportioned for them a possession and settled the tribes of Israel in their tents.
23:14 -  Yet they tested the most high God and rebelled against him. They did not observe his decrees, but turned away and were faithless like their ancestors. The sins of the fathers coming upon the sons.
23:30 -  They twisted like a treacherous bull, for they provoked him to anger with their high places. They moved him to jealousy with their idols.
23:39 -  When God heard he was full of wrath and he utterly rejected Israel. He abandoned his dwelling at Shiloh, the tent where he dwelt among mortals, and delivered his power to captivity.
23:53 -  His glory to the hand of the foe. Remember that at the time of Eli that the box that contained the ark of God was captured by the Philistines and his sons were killed and Eli falls over dead.
24:12 -  He gave his people to the sword and vented his wrath on his heritage. The fire devoured their young men and their girls had no marriage song. Their priests fell by the sword and their widows made no lamentation.
24:25 -  Then the Lord awoke us from sleep like a warrior shouting because of wine. He put his adversaries to rout. He put them to everlasting disgrace.
24:35 -  He rejected the tent of Joseph. He did not choose the tribe of Ephraim, but he chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Zion which he loves.
24:43 -  What a remarkable survey of the whole history of Israel up to the time of the advent of David himself. Verse 67, he rejected the tent of Joseph and did not choose the tribe of Ephraim, meant
25:20 -  that northern Israel from these tribes were cast into exile. They were defeated and wiped out. These are the lost tribes of Israel and God gave Judah the inheritance, one or two tribes
25:37 -  around Jerusalem, but all 10 tribes descended from Joseph and Ephraim were cast into captivity and utterly destroyed by the Assyrians in 710, 720 BC. In 586 BC, Judah then catches it because God says that your sins are like your sister.
25:58 -  Instead of receiving the example of being chastised by what I've done with the northern tribes, you have committed adultery and idolatry of like kind and so upon you comes not judgment through the Assyrians but through the Babylonians and Jerusalem is destroyed and millions are
26:18 -  wiped out and cast into exile. So what a tragic history that Israel itself, the nation, does not profit from its own example. Seeing what God did with the northern tribes, the southern tribes, instead of being chastened
26:34 -  in time, are just as sinful as their kinsmen before them, but all of that is in one verse. He rejected the tents of Joseph. This is understatement, but we must not miss it.
26:48 -  He did not choose the tribe of Ephraim. He chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Sinai, which he loves, built a sanctuary and then he chose his servant David and made him to be the king over this surviving remnant, which
27:06 -  not long after David and through Solomon thereafter, then that Judah falls again into the sins of Israel and is judged, but with upright heart he tended them and guided them with a skillful hand.
27:22 -  Of course, David is so much the statement of the God who appointed him tending the nursing hues that was a preparation for tending Israel. So this is a remarkable overlay of the whole history of Israel until that time, both of
27:44 -  judgment and mercy. Isn't it interesting that the psalm ends on the high note? It doesn't end with the statement of judgment.
27:52 -  It ends with God's honoring of Zion and establishing his kingdom through David, but we know tragically what has followed since. Did you read that part about the idols and the thing that they performed when they moved
28:11 -  him to jealousy with the idols in verse 58? With their high places, what are the high places? The places for Canaanite idolatry, worshiping trees because they are the symbol of the phallic symbol, penis. It's a whole fertility worship that in Canaanite culture
28:41 -  includes temple prostitutes, both male and female, and doing that on the high hills in the face of God who had called them to be a holy people and separated unto himself. Is there a word for such a history as this? How God is rubbed raw by a people who are
29:02 -  so privileged to receive the law and deliverance out of Egypt, faithfulness through the wilderness into the land of promise prepared for them, flown with milk and honey, and then as they were fattened, they grew sleek and rebelled against the rock.
29:20 -  So the doctrine of total depravity, that there's no main good, no not one, is not some exaggerated or extreme notion that was cooked up in some theologian's head. The evidence, the testimony, both of Israel and even of the Church, quite confirms that truth. Total depravity required
29:46 -  a total answer from someone who was untouched by it and was without sin to be a once and for all sacrifice, to bring an expiation of this historic guilt, in which we are all included whether or not we lived at that time or were a participant just by virtue of being human.
30:09 -  Adam, sons of Adam, guilty and capable of all this that required all that. I don't know how a modern Jew would read this, but even the orthodox who read it don't read it but chant it, and the issue of chanting is not comprehension but dutifully getting through
30:36 -  a certain measure of scripture. So I remember being at an orthodox service in St. Paul, the Hasidim, the Lubavitcher, and they were reading in Jeremiah was the selection from the prophets on that Shabbat
30:51 -  that spoke about devastation and destruction and ruin, and I'm looking around and these guys are chanting like they're reading Apricadapra, and finally I was so incensed that I turned to the guy closest to me and I said, do you realize what you're reading? And he looked
31:09 -  at me like, where are you coming from, Mars? What are you talking about? Am I supposed to comprehend this? The object is not comprehension, the object is recital. I'm doing my duty, I'm getting through, I'm chanting, inflecting, rising, my voice rises and falls according
31:27 -  to the prescribed rhythm for those verses, but the content or comprehension, let alone repentance, so utterly blind in that spirit of religion, it's like Catholicism in Latin, it's orthodoxy in Hebrew, so we need to know that in the people whom we're called to confront,
31:52 -  they have no consciousness of their own sin, either of their ancestors or their own, because the sin of their ancestors is their own. That's why in Leviticus 26, I think, in one of the last chapters, God says, when you will acknowledge the sins of your fathers as your own and your
32:13 -  own sin, then I will restore the covenant that I have made. Then I will circumcise your heart that you might love the Lord your God. He's waiting for an acknowledgement that the sins of our fathers are our own sins, and until that acknowledgement comes, we stand
32:30 -  under the indictment and the judgment that can yet fall and will, in God's chosen moment, can only be withheld by the provision already made. There is no or little or no sin consciousness among you, even orthodox. Certainly, it's going to require a profound sin consciousness
32:54 -  in ourselves, and that we don't come to them with a haughty superiority as if we have seen the light and they're still in darkness. We come to them with a brokenness that we are guilty with you. We have shared your condition exactly. The only difference is that by the
33:10 -  mercy of God, he has expiated that sin, and we want to let you know that your God has made that provision and you've missed it. In fact, I think in that same section of scripture about the stupor, it talks about that their table has been made a snare unto them. So
33:29 -  still the issue of gratification, lust, appetite as being an obstruction to the communication of God. The table itself is a snare. To say that God is not able or uninterested is to impose a limitation. This is the greatest insult because God is infinite in his possibilities.
33:50 -  With man, it's impossible, but with God, nothing is impossible. So to imply that God is limited or for you to limit him by your own mentality and attitude is to express the vilest of sins. So that's why that's an alternative reading that gets to the heart of the matter, and
34:12 -  it's one with which we are guilty also. Can God provide a heaven in the wilderness? Can he meet our financial need? What will we do in the last days of the economy collapses? They're raising all kinds of questions and doubts and apprehensions. I've had them myself
34:28 -  even in these days. I had it for today. I went to bed last night disquieted and not knowing how to continue and having to face today not trusting God and doubting that he could bring us through and maybe we've come to an impasse as far as we can go and that
34:51 -  this school, no matter how precious others may have been, is at an end. I was wrestling with questions like that. You know where their source is, but it was a real wrestling and a real concern that myself with all the experience of God's faithfulness for all these years
35:07 -  can still entertain a doubt that he can succeed now with this wilderness at this time with these students in this place. Who is free from that kind of apprehension and anxiety and limits God unconsciously or consciously and says he's not able? We need to be reminded
35:29 -  not only with our own personal experience of God's faithfulness, which is enormous, but his faithfulness in history, his faithfulness with Israel, his faithfulness in the giving of his son, his faithfulness in the giving of the word, the prophets, the Psalms. There's
35:43 -  a whole vast basis for acknowledging God's faithfulness and we need to invoke that in our memory, not just our personal experience, precious though it is, but the whole testimony of God in time and in history from the beginning and especially with Israel. To miss God with
36:02 -  Israel is to miss God. Interesting, like the choice of the word Jacob that here he would use the reference to Ham who was the son who took the liberty of his father naked and defenseless and advantaged himself over his father and whispered to the other brothers that they
36:23 -  should share with him in his delight and seeing the father exposed. And so the Egyptians are from that line and so the judgment came upon the tense of Ham. It could be, I hadn't thought about it before, that as God will delay his judgment, though he does not forget the infraction
36:47 -  and will recompense the sinner at a later time, that it may well be that the judgments that came in Egypt are altogether related to the infraction of Ham at the very beginning and the nakedness of his father. And the delaying of that judgment came until the Lord expressed
37:08 -  it in judgments in Egypt. Why? Because there, I'm just talking off the top of my head, great question, Ham has now come to the place of his greatest glory and expression as the most conspicuous and significant kingdom that then prevailed. And God judged that kingdom
37:26 -  in every aspect of their idolatry. Frogs were celebrated as a symbol and the river that was their life turned to blood. So he brings a judgment on everything celebrated by Ham. Here's a one, here's a, might be a remarkable example that God did not forget Ham's infraction
37:50 -  against his father Noah, but reserved and waited to bring it at a time when it was most righteous in his wisdom to perform it, while at the same time it saved Israel out of Egypt. And the same judgment came on the Canaanites, so as to prepare the place for Israel. So
38:13 -  the judgment against the Gentiles is often the very same act by which Israel is brought into her own inheritance, that the judgment for one proves the blessing for the other. But the judgment may have a longer history than just the present sin of the Pharaoh,
38:32 -  that the sin of the Pharaoh and of Egypt is the outworking of something that had its initiation all the way back to Ham and was transmitted through the generations till it came to its fullest flower of opposing the Israel in its midst and then God judges it. We need
38:50 -  to have a much larger view of God than what we presently know, a much greater historic and even cosmic view of God in his righteous judgment and in his own privilege to determine when it shall be executed. And therefore he needs to be feared. Therefore Paul says knowing
39:11 -  the terror of God, that that judgment, righteous, can fall at any time. What manner of men ought we to be? We don't know and we have separated sin from its consequence and because it has not been immediately answered in the infraction and liberty that we have taken, we go on from
39:33 -  sin to sin. So what begins as first a mild flirtation and lightning did not break through to strike us, then the next time we take a little bit more liberty and go from a flirtation to a kind of affair that does not eventuate an actual fornication, but still God has not
39:52 -  answered, so maybe he's approving. And then we go from that to an actual adultery and we go from the adultery to an actual divorce and we set in motion and then the judgment falls. I don't know why God does not immediately answer, but we need to know that God does
40:10 -  answer from his treatment of Israel and of the sons of Ham. That's not for us to determine, but that he will answer is unquestionable. His wrath has got to find its expression, for he's no longer holy. So we need to be warned against the first flirtation. Something
40:32 -  needs to be recognized at its inception because, well, I got away with this. I guess it's okay then to go on to the next expression, the next, then the next, and then the judgment falls. Why are Christians capable of that kind of conduct? Because they have not studied
40:50 -  the history of God's dealing with Israel in just the very psalm that we're considering today, and therefore they are uninstructed and take liberties with the God of Israel who is God still. He's not changed. He's the same deity then as now. Only our knowledge
41:05 -  of him is most inadequate because we have not given ourselves to the study of the thing that reveals him in scripture. These things are written for our admonition upon whom the ends of the age have come. Remember that of Jesus it says that he was the lamb slain from
41:27 -  the foundations of the world. The historic fulfillment came in 30 AD, but the event itself in God was timelessly and eternally enacted even before the foundations of the earth were laid. Isn't that remarkable? We're suffering from time sense, time-space sense that is
41:49 -  altogether human, and therefore we lose the sense of God in his eternity and in his cosmic liberty of establishing a fact before the historic enactment actually takes place. So that he foresaw its need and established it from the beginning is a remarkable statement
42:09 -  that beggars imagination. So when John the Baptist sees Jesus, behold the lamb of God who has come to take away the sins of the world. Somehow either intuitively or howsoever he recognizes this is that provision made before the foundations of the earth were laid
42:27 -  now coming to pass. We need to factor this in. We're so boxed in with our human categories and sense of time that we don't understand God as God eternally in his freedom to act. And we need to give him a due respect, admiration, and worship because he's much larger than
42:49 -  we thought. Let's conclude in prayer. How shall we pray? In view of what we've been through, it pleased the Lord to set before us today, despite my doubts and apprehensions that he was not capable of setting a table in the wilderness today. Thank you, Lord.
43:11 -  Prayer is a remarkable sacrament, a remarkable privilege, and he hears it. So Lord, what shall we say to you, my God? We're dust. We're not one whit better than our father Israel, the sons of Israel. My God, had we lived at that time, we ourselves, my God, would have
43:38 -  been completely indifferent to you. While your meat was in our teeth, we would have deserved your stroke. And even now, we are demanding and exhibit so much, my God, of what was characteristic of the Israel which you judged and judged severely and rightly.
43:57 -  So we ask, we're receiving your mercy, Lord, or we would have been blotted out, this is your mercy. And we have not sufficiently appreciated your mercy, my God. And so help us, Lord. We're dense, we're dull. We have kept ourselves from your testimony. If we looked at the Psalms
44:15 -  at all, it was with some kind of acknowledgement that this was historic and pertained to Israel, not to us. Thank you for your mercy, Lord. We are so shallow. How are we going to teach our Jewish kids? How are we going to instruct them about sin and knowing the terror of God
44:34 -  persuading them when we ourselves don't know that terror? Mercy, Lord. Mercy, Lord. Mercy, Lord. Precious God. Lord, holy one, come and work your work, Lord. We're so dependent upon you. God, if we turn this only into head trip, if we just make this academic knowledge
45:01 -  and are not affected in our own deeps, in our own subsequent life, does not show forth the benefit of this kind of emphasis and instruction which you have invoked for our good, of what then are we deserving? We of all people are most to be pitied. Our judgment will be the
45:21 -  greater because to whom much is given, much is required and you have given much. So we're asking, my God, for the mercy to convert that much into real, inward appropriation that will express itself in conduct, character and life to the praise of your glory because
45:43 -  of your grace. After today, Lord, we shall never again boast of being the Israel of God as if we have superseded your people and are superior to them. We are only the Israel of God in the sense that we share with them the same indictment, the same condition, needing
46:00 -  the same mercy. So forgive us, my God, in the vain boast that we have made as if we're made of better stuff than they, when we're made of actually the same stuff and we're equally as guilty, whether we live through that time or not, as our attitudes even now
46:17 -  continue to display, making demands and doubting your ability to establish a table in the wilderness. Thank you, my God. Oh, save us from our presumption, our pride, our false superiority, my God. We're altogether deserving only of judgment and of no other consideration. That it has
46:38 -  not come is simply your remarkable grace and mercy. So what shall we say to you, Lord? You're deserving only of praise and honor because you're righteous. What you've done in your righteousness is, on our side, totally undeserved. But it's the statement of yourself.
46:57 -  Holy God, jealous for his own name and honor, has taken the pains to defend it through the death of your Son that at the same time provided our salvation. Thank you, Lord. Oh, precious God, precious God. Thank you, Lord, for your long patience in waiting for us to come to
47:19 -  a certain elementary understanding that should have been ours long ago and would have saved us from so much in the way in which we have deported ourselves in the church and in our own life and own films, our own conduct. Reckless and indifferent to the issue of sin and judgment
47:38 -  because we were not instructed and refuse to be instructed. Mercy, Lord, on the church today in that condition, our own flesh and blood we pray in Jesus' name.