Psalm 51 The Sinfulness of Sin

00:00 -  What a solemn topic is before us tonight. It's called sin. And I hinted that the Lord has been stirring me up over Psalm 51.
00:21 -  David's cry blot out, oh God, blot out my transgressions. And we need to examine that, and wherever else the Lord will lead us, in notes that I have in Karl Barth from his Church Dogmatics, of which I possess all fourteen volumes.
00:44 -  Six hundred dollars. But Inge encouraged me. And I'm so glad for that.
00:54 -  Can you imagine David falling into such grievous sin? The sweet singer of Israel? The great king, warrior, the beloved of God?
01:05 -  Have you reckoned on this? How David could be capable of so monumental a transgression as adultery and murder? Our David?
01:17 -  And that the Father is not ashamed to call Jesus the greater David? And that the Church and the Kingdom is Davidic? There's such a celebration over David.
01:28 -  And yet, great as that man is, capable of this remarkable double sin. And what's yet more astonishing, he was not at all convicted until Nathan had to speak a kind of parable about some injustice of a man whose single lamb was confiscated.
01:51 -  I forgot the details. And David was so vexed to hear this injustice that he rose up in his indignity and said, that man ought to die.
02:03 -  And Nathan said, thou art the man. What shall we say? That not only was our great king and precursor of Jesus capable of this double sin,
02:18 -  but was deceived even about it and entirely without conviction until the word came. This needs to be studied. There are vast things in this remarkable episode.
02:34 -  So I've got two Bibles out before me and a number of notes from a man that I'm commending to all the Church, whom I've recently discovered, who is called the Karl Barth of Great Britain. I know you don't know who Karl Barth is.
02:51 -  Swiss-German theologian, B-A-R-T-H. It's silent, the H, Barth. He's considered to be the giant of 20th century theology, but he's fallen into eclipse.
03:04 -  But not for me. Great source of inspiration and insight. And this P.T. Forsythe, who lived before him, died about 1928, maybe 10 years after Karl Barth's great epical,
03:19 -  The Epistle to the Romans, was published, that shook the Christian world. Someone quoted Forsythe to Barth and Barth said, If I did not know that this man lived before me, I would have said he was copying me.
03:32 -  He was so akin in understanding and yet different. One German, precise, exacting theologian, the other English, poetic literary. So I found his book in a used bookstore in Manhattan, debating whether to indulge myself.
03:51 -  Fifteen dollars, the Lord overcame my stinginess, and it was a life-turning discovery. I'm quoting from that same book. We are in the midst of a movement and an apostasy more serious than anything that has occurred in the Church's history since Gnosticism was overcome.
04:13 -  This is so contemporary you would think that it was written yesterday or today. I think the book was published around 1909. And yet there he already sees an apostasy more serious than the earliest eras of the early Church.
04:33 -  What would he say if he were alive now? Our only hope is simply in a deepened spirituality, chastened by error. Our own talk of sin is palpably ceasing to be the talk of broken and contrite men.
04:47 -  It has no note of humiliation in it. Perish today, forbid the thought that the talk of sin should become clinical, matter of fact, and have no note of brokenness or contrition in it. Our pious heart does not mediate terror.
05:05 -  We don't know like Paul the exceeding sinfulness of sin. And so much as I myself understand, the issue of sin is the issue of God. The issue of God is the issue of reality.
05:20 -  And if we are deficient in sin, we are deficient in all categories. Everything suffers loss. If we miss it in this most fundamental issue of truth about the condition and nature of man as man,
05:37 -  we cannot understand God as God if we do not at the same time understand man as man. The two things are inexorably joined. That's why Isaiah, when he saw the Lord high and lifted up,
05:52 -  he saw himself in a new light in proportion to the increase of God to cry out, Oy vey, woe is me, I'm undone. I'm a man of unclean lips and I live in the midst of the people of unclean lips.
06:07 -  Somehow seeing God rightly enabled the prophet to see his condition rightly. And if the prophet who is called the prince of prophets and through whom more messianic prophecy is given than any other,
06:21 -  would call himself a man of unclean lips, what shall we say? You know, saints, let's just face it. We do not know as we ought to know.
06:33 -  And so probably every woeful lamentable aspect of the church's present condition has got to go back to a want of a real recognition and knowledge of sin as sin. And somehow it's lost that note and it's on the Lord's heart tonight to revive it.
06:55 -  Our pious heart does not mediate terror. We are not frightened at ourselves. We're victims of an age of humanism.
07:04 -  And men don't talk about sin as I've mentioned. They talk about error. They talk about mistake.
07:10 -  So we reflect that. There's an atmosphere from which we draw that has tempered what ought to be more radically alive in our hearts and spirits.
07:23 -  We are not frightened at ourselves. We have softness, but not the sacred tenderness that comes from humiliation alone. Isn't that a precious insight?
07:31 -  There's a difference between softness and tenderness. And the issue is the issue of to what degree we have understood and appropriated sin. The knowledge of sin as sin.
07:45 -  It has not the patience, the love of the brotherhood, the passion to serve the church instead of correcting and scorching it. You have to make way for PT Forsyth.
07:54 -  He's literary. You have to follow him. And sometimes it takes a while for things to click in.
08:00 -  It's like a flight of consciousness that he goes from that statement to talking about that if we are soft rather than tender, that comes from the humiliation that is the result of the right appropriation of sin.
08:17 -  Our attitude in the church, love of the brotherhood, the serving of the church becomes a correcting and a scorching, a flaying rather than a ministration of a kind that it ought.
08:30 -  Our speech of sin has not the note of my sin, my sin. It's too abstract. It's too general.
08:38 -  It's a category. The personal quotient is gone. And in consequence, our thought and speech of Christ loses the authentic note of my Lord and my God.
08:49 -  If it's not my sin, my sin, neither is it my Lord and my God. The two things are inextricably joined. So if sin becomes impersonal, God becomes impersonal.
09:02 -  Worship becomes impersonal. Service becomes impersonal. And it all goes back to my sin, my sin in order to be my God, my God.
09:14 -  We do not know an eternal sin. And therefore, we do not know an eternal Redeemer in the Christ that we inadequately praise. Few of us know God as God.
09:27 -  Did I tell you about that woman who, the Dutch woman who opposed my apocalyptic view on Israel's coming time of Jacob's trouble? She lived a major part of her life in Israel, married an Israeli. Her son is a believer, grew up in Israel, fluent in Hebrew.
09:46 -  And they've only recently returned to Holland. And she used to wince when I would come. She could not bear my perspective because she had such an identification with Israel.
09:56 -  She didn't want to have to consider that the nation that she had come to love and found her husband from among it, and her son was raised in it, is slated for devastation, disaster. So she had difficulty bearing with me until she read the Holocaust book.
10:13 -  Where is God? And she said, when I saw her the next time, she said, my attitude and understanding of God has completely been turned. I now am in complete agreement with you.
10:26 -  Your book turned me around completely. Then she added this, moreover, through your book, I came to realize that the God whom I had been worshipping in the name of Jesus was Santa Claus. And I've heard several comments like that, though it was not our intention in composing the book on the Holocaust.
10:48 -  Where was God? But the issue of God in judgment reveals an aspect of God from which believers have turned. Because they don't want to be confronted with an evidence that God can be an excruciating judge and his judgments can be devastating.
11:07 -  Because it raises questions about, well, how is he kind? How is he loving? We cling tenaciously to our view of God, lest it should be injured.
11:17 -  And so we don't know how to reconcile judgment with mercy, not yet coming to that maturity that knows that judgment is mercy. And that mercy is meaningless and dependent of judgment. So all of these things expressed in this book began to affect her.
11:34 -  If this mature saint has realized that the God whom she was worshipping was the God of her own imagining, a figment of her own imagination, a construct to whom she had placed the appellation to label Jesus, but it was not in fact the Lord. What then is the truth for many of us who are guilty in one measure or another of exactly that sin of making God a projection of our own fancy?
12:06 -  Who does our errands and runs our things and sees to our needs whom we call Jesus. And it's a kind of something we have formed unconsciously. Some medley of things from scripture, things from our imagination, things from our subjectivity.
12:24 -  We don't know as we ought to know the issue of God as God, as he in fact is and not as we think him to be. Can there be anything more imperative for the church than to be corrected in its fallacious notions about God? Because it opens the door to all kinds of delusion, not the least of which is the whole phenomenon of present day propheticness.
12:50 -  And the men who are celebrated and followed and whose books we wait with panting and with anticipation. There's a whole subculture, there's a whole devious unreality that is pervasive in the church that is celebrated as reality. Because the basic problem is that even these foremost men whose books are prolific and are swept up and become bestsellers do not themselves know God as God.
13:24 -  I'm persuaded, I can't prove it. If they were ever confronted with such a statement they would deny it fiercely because they're persuaded that they do know. And these are the same guys that lambast me and say that I have substituted Israel for Christ. That I'm off on some kind of side tangent and that the issue is Christ.
13:46 -  And here you are always on the issue of Israel. Well, they don't know that the issue of Israel's restoration is the issue of Christ, is the issue of his kingdom, is the issue of restoration, is the whole logic of the whole redemptive saga of which he's central.
14:06 -  It's the celebration of him and the restoration of the nation, it's not a substitute for him. But because they can use the word Christ and seem to be saying the right thing and plucking the right strings, we are taken in and succumb and ascribe to that as being somehow truth.
14:30 -  So I'm just gasping and fulminating having had an afternoon with some of the young believers here. We're talking about this propheticness, this phenomenon, these men, my own relationship or collision with some of them. And it made me to think that, and as I mentioned to them, I think that the real problem in the last analysis is the inadequate knowledge of God as God.
15:01 -  Because we have an inadequate knowledge of sin as sin. Therefore we have an inadequate knowledge of atonement as atonement. Therefore we have an inadequate knowledge of Christ as Christ.
15:13 -  If we haven't made connection at the point of reality, the issue of sin, the nature of man and depravity as God himself sees it, everything else is going to suffer that proportionate loss. So few know God as God, as he is in himself and as he desires to be known.
15:35 -  Our danger is to project, to be subjective, to dismiss his judgments as unpilatable, contradicting what we think of him as being kind, loving. And we have a tendency to sentimentalize, to romanticize. And then the last analysis, it becomes to trivialize both God and the faith.
15:56 -  I think that is our present essential lamentable condition. What makes it all the more pitiable, we don't know it. We don't know that that's the state of things.
16:06 -  And some of us think we're on the cutting edge as these men presume themselves to be. To know him as he in fact is, has got to be the issue of highest priority. And he promises, if you seek for him with all your heart and all your soul, you shall be found of him.
16:25 -  He desires, as Psalm 51 says, truth in the inward parts. Then David says, I'll teach transgressors thy ways and citizens shall be converted unto thee. It may well be as great a psalmist as David is, as beloved of God as he is, sweet singer of Israel as he is.
16:49 -  He himself needed a fall of a kind to open to his own consideration, truths about his own nature as man that he could not have seen if he had sailed along blithely in his career as Israel's great king and God's great sweet singer. That it was necessary for him to be apprehended about the truth of his own condition by his own fallenness.
17:21 -  And by that we are served in the cry that issues from him in Psalm 51, which we are now going to examine. That begins, have mercy on me, O God. The word mercy is the issue of God himself, because when Moses said, show me thy glory,
17:48 -  God hid him in a cleft of the rock and let his backward parts pass by and said, I have shown you, I've declared my name, my tender kindness and my mercy. Moses asked for his glory, God shows him his mercy, because the mercy of God is his glory. The mercy of God is the quintessential nature of God, is that the epitome, the nexus, the root of God's personality as God is his mercy.
18:22 -  And the heck of it is that the age ends when we will extend to Israel in a woe-begone and pitifully bedraggled condition that cannot now be imagined, but it will very much correspond to what Jesus experienced at the cross and is expressed in Isaiah 53. They will be marred more than any man, they will have no beauty that any should desire them, they will be rejected of men and despised, they will be extinct.
18:53 -  They will be as a nation suffering in very much the same way as the Lord himself on the road to Calvary. And in that condition they will come to us, and if they don't receive mercy, that is more than just a catchword. If they don't receive palpable mercy, the mercy of God, they will perish.
19:15 -  The issue of mercy in the last days is the issue of Israel's salvation and Israel's restoration through a church that can extend mercy, as Paul tells us in the great dissertation of Romans 11, that by your mercy they may obtain mercy. So the question is, have we mercy to give?
19:36 -  If mercy is only a category or doctrine of verbalization, an ascent to a certain doctrinal truth, but we have not mercy in fact, what shall we extend? To extend the doctrine of mercy and the theology of the verbalization is not going to help Israel. They need palpable mercy in their uttermost extremity or they will perish.
20:11 -  How will we have it to give? Only in proportion as we ourselves have received it. And I don't know that we have even begun to understand, let alone to appropriate mercy, until we begin to see ourselves in David's condition and cry out,
20:29 -  Oh God, have mercy upon me, and to come to that without having necessarily to repeat David's sin. So will you understand me when I say that Psalm 51 would have been as profound as true if David had written it without having committed the sins that had provoked it? That he did not need actually to experience becoming an adulterer and the murder that followed in order to cry out, have mercy upon me, oh God.
21:05 -  That his nature as a man was altogether there all the time and did not need the palpable sin to prove what God says is the truth of our condition, for which we need to have mercy that blots it out and creates in us a clean heart and renews in us a right spirit. If David did not need his actual, the event of sin to prove the truth of sin, do we need it?
21:33 -  Or is there an egotism and a vanity on our part that sees itself as superior to David? Can we vicariously in dwelling upon this Psalm say, there but for the grace of God go I? The fact that I have been saved from these shameful acts is not in any way a credit or truth of the statement of my condition.
21:58 -  It's only happenstance. It's only something of an arbitrary kind. Had I been subject to the same temptation, I would have acted in the same way. I am not better than David. I made exactly of the same stuff.
22:14 -  And I have not come to the real truth of the faith until I can cry out with David, Oh God, have mercy upon me, blot out my transgressions before waiting for the actual event of them to prove the truth of it. Got the picture? Help me, saints. I'm a strange, lonely man.
22:34 -  I'm out here by myself. I'm treading water. I'm threatening to sink with something that's palpitating and finding a place in me, as you heard from other things in these days, but is not yet tested.
22:50 -  It's in process. And I think it's on time. God has been patient long, but now he sees how superficial his church is. Not the worst aspects. The best aspects are superficial.
23:07 -  He sees the hollowness of our worship. He sees our mediocrity. He sees how humanistic that we have become and that the great faith has been produced into a kind of subscription to doctrinal and positional truths,
23:22 -  but the actuality has been lost. And so he's jealous for his name. And he sees that it's being trivialized.
23:34 -  And so he's bringing us back to absolute foundations. I'm embarrassed to have to speak about the subject of sin. But what's the point of speaking about last day's things when our foundations
23:46 -  have been neglected and need to be restored? Because the issue of the foundation is the issue of the fulfillment of last day's things. Because if the foundation is a mercy that comes to us in the cry of the acknowledgement
23:59 -  of the truth of our sinful condition, then we will have wherewith to bless Israel in the last days. The actual thing that we have received that oswages the pain, the unspeakable grief of sin as a kind of cancerous, rotting thing that David actually experienced,
24:20 -  that he could not abide it a moment longer. It was with him continually. It haunted him. It was in his gut, which is why he cries out,
24:30 -  wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, cleanse me from my sin. This anguish of sin casts one upon God. Because the one who is experiencing its depth and its unspeakable torment
24:50 -  knows that there's nothing that he can do by which he can be relieved. To whom shall he go? Fortune teller? Someone going to do wave something over his head magic?
25:00 -  He knows there's only one who can at all meet this condition, and it is God. Sin casts us upon God with a depth and urgency that he long waits. And if we have not sinned that prompts us to seek him for the alleviation that only he can bring,
25:22 -  how have we in fact sought God and found him and know him? Something in the anatomy of things and the structure of things and the wisdom of God has given us a nature that the scriptures suggest is totally depraved.
25:38 -  It's a damic. It's a taint. It's a corruption. And until God purges, until he will with hyssop and blood cleanse us, there's something rotting in us. There's something working. It's death itself.
25:56 -  But to come to an awareness of the truth of that condition does not wait for us actually to fall into it. We have every reason vicariously to identify with David and make his cry our own. And if we will not, he'll see to it that indeed we will experience the reality.
26:19 -  If we'll not receive it by faith and identification with David whose head's in shoulders above us and falls, and we say, no, we're superior, that would never happen to me. You can be assured it will happen to you.
26:34 -  May God save us from needless shame if we will acknowledge the truth of our condition as we see it reflected and revealed in the cry of our father David. For I acknowledge my transgressions and my sin is ever before me.
26:53 -  It doesn't cease. You can't swallow it down. You can't take a deep breath. You can't snuff it out. You can't wallow in entertainment.
27:03 -  Why do you think entertainment is big biz? Billions, Sony, Warner Brothers, the films, Disney Studios. We're not talking about little fly-by-night firms.
27:18 -  Entertainment in our world today is one of the chief commodities that equals in financial value oil, steel, commodities that have to do with very life. That's the formidable role that entertainment has become in a sinful generation
27:37 -  that wants to drown it out or be distracted from having to consider it by seeing something sensational, something erotic, something of a kind that takes the awareness away from them, the ache, and dissipates it
27:50 -  and turns the attention away from themselves. The church itself is not immune to entertainment. For David, my sin is ever before me.
28:02 -  Not my failing, not the event of my sin. The condition of sin is ever before me. It took the occurrence to bring it to my conscious awareness.
28:17 -  But what I see is that if I am capable of both adultery and murder, what must my condition be and what has it always been until it surfaced and gave expression to this horrible manifestation.
28:34 -  It is ever before me. Not the event, the condition. Until we come to that recognition and speak about the power of the blood, we're just mouthing empty words.
28:48 -  And I think that therefore empty worship, empty service. This is foundational. Against thee and thee only have I sinned.
28:58 -  Yes, man has been the victim of my conduct and act, but the essence of it is a violation against you. Because I have despoiled a piece of your creation, this woman,
29:13 -  because I have murdered a son who in many ways was more faithful and attentive to the issue of Israel's defense than I myself as king. I couldn't lure him even to come back and be with his wife,
29:27 -  even for a bit of retreat so that her pregnancy might be attributed to him. That man said, no, so long as Israel is at war, I'm in the field. That's the man that David murdered.
29:41 -  But it's a sin against God. Every sin in the last analysis is a sin against God. Moreover, it's a sin that's done in his sight.
29:50 -  Fancy that. Talk about the sin of presumption. That we can perform something as if God is not looking,
30:00 -  as if God is not seeing. Against thee and thee only have I sinned and have done this in thy sight. David's heart is stricken because he's seeing
30:12 -  what may be worse even than the murder and the adultery is the presumption to think that God does not see, does not know, does not understand, does not realize
30:23 -  and that we could pull a quickie and do a little sleight of hand and get away with it when his back is turned or he's napping. To say that I've done this in your sight with the thing that he's not seeing
30:36 -  is to depreciate God as God. Talk about sinning against God. Is there any greater sin than to make him less than what he in fact is?
30:48 -  All the more when you're a king of Israel and celebrating him in your Psalms. Behold I was shaped in iniquity and in sin did my mother conceive me.
31:01 -  You need to read Spurgeon on this. How many do not have in their library the three great volumes of the Treasury of David by Spurgeon?
31:10 -  Oh, shame. Sell something. Whatever it takes.
31:16 -  Spurgeon. Spurgeon on the Psalms. Every Psalm with his commentary.
31:23 -  You ought to read Spurgeon on Psalm 51 and I've got some things that I've typed out from Spurgeon's commentary. Choice, deep, insightful.
31:35 -  You know what he says about this? What is David saying? I was conceived in iniquity.
31:40 -  But his mother was kind of not in a good moral position at the time of his conception. So therefore it was a fluke.
31:49 -  And by that means he was born in untoward circumstances that later had this out working. He's saying so much more.
31:57 -  His mother was in fact chaste. His mother was in fact a woman of Israel and holy. When he's saying I was conceived in iniquity
32:07 -  he's not making any allusion to some lack in his mother's moral makeup. What he's saying is there's something that's intrinsic at me that came with my birth.
32:19 -  With my whole, the advent of my being as a human that is stricken, that is corrupt, that is Adamic, that is sick, that is tainted.
32:29 -  That's what he's saying. Have you seen yourself like that? That is true seeing.
32:36 -  And everything in the world conspires against your seeing that and acknowledging that because we're after all nice guys. And we never did really commit serious sin.
32:50 -  So we're heads and shoulders above others and measure ourselves by others. But there's a condition that comes, that's intrinsic to our humanity that David is seeing for a first time.
33:04 -  His sin compelled him to see the truth of his condition. We need to see it without having to experience its outworking. And then behold thou desire's truth in the inward parts
33:16 -  and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom. Purge me with a hyssop I shall be clean. Wash me I shall be whiter than snow.
33:24 -  Here's an allusion to blood. The only solvent, the only detergent that can remove this terrible stain and alter this condition.
33:34 -  Does he have to wait for the crucifixion of Jesus that is yet seven centuries ahead? Or can he avail himself by faith of a lamb that was slain from before the foundations of the earth?
33:47 -  He doesn't have to wait for the actual event. The event is timeless. And there's an appropriation that is available by faith
33:55 -  in the urgency of a cry that recognizes the truth of its condition and knows that nothing can meet it but the hyssop that is dipped in that blood. And there's a way to appropriate it even before the event.
34:09 -  It's timeless and eternal. How embarrassed must we be then after the event not to have appropriated that blood and that hyssop
34:20 -  because our cry has not been as urgent. We do not see ourselves so desperately in that condition and though we sing of the power of the blood, it's only singing.
34:30 -  Per Spurgeon says the cry wash me is in view of one great pollution polluting his entire nature. The one sin against Bathsheba served to show the psalmist
34:41 -  the whole mountain of his iniquity of which the foul deed was but one stone. My sin is ever before me.
34:49 -  Sin that is never out of mind. The pain on account of it is not transient and occasional but intense and permanent.
34:59 -  Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this in thy sight to commit treason in the court of the king
35:07 -  and before his eye is impudence indeed. Hey guys, can you understand that? To think that God is not seeing
35:21 -  and we're pulling a quickie and getting away with it is the height of human arrogance and impudence against God. It is a colossal affront.
35:33 -  It is more heinous and hideous than the sin of adultery and murder itself to presume against God that he does not see. And how many of us conduct ourselves like that?
35:48 -  I was shaped in iniquity. Spurgeon says his mother was a chaste handmaiden and he was born in chaste wedlock.
35:56 -  So the cry is the acknowledgement of inborn sin. I am in my very nature a sinner. The fountain of my life is polluted.
36:02 -  Mine is a constitutional disease. Well, if that's true for David, sweet psalmist, sweet singer,
36:10 -  king of Israel, what then of us? That's the whole point, you dear saints. If this is true for David, what then of us?
36:20 -  And who of us has cried as urgently? Who of us has acknowledged the truth of our condition as desperately? Therefore, we are living beneath the appropriation of the Holy Sacred Blood.
36:34 -  Therefore, we are callow and shallow. Therefore, we don't have a true sense of our own condition. Therefore, we're complimenting ourselves and judging ourselves
36:46 -  and always making a verdict that is easier to receive than if we receive God's judgment himself. We can't even understand the mechanism,
36:57 -  the unconscious way in which we justify, permit, go on. And when we come together corporately, it's revealed in the very atmosphere that we generate together.
37:12 -  The unconfessed, unacknowledged sin, the lack of awareness of the depth of our condition and the appropriation of what came at great cost
37:23 -  through the Son of God as the Lamb of God in excruciating death for the shedding of blood to meet it as nothing else could.
37:33 -  We'll not go on to anything in God until this foundation is laid and maintained. If we take issue with the doctrine that my sin is ever before me,
37:46 -  that this is a condition, and you don't feel that way, which is the Jewish condition. They say this is Christian doctrine.
37:53 -  The total depravity is a Christian doctrine to which we do not subscribe in Judaism, not knowing that it's implicit in the Old Testament.
38:04 -  If God were the Mark of Iniquity, who can stand? I was reading in Proverbs, was it yesterday, the day before, chapter 19, I think.
38:12 -  Who can know his own sin? Who can say that he is clean from his sin? Who can know his own heart?
38:20 -  The Old Testament is full of acknowledgments of the innate, intrinsic condition of man as sinner. It's not a Christian doctrine.
38:31 -  It's a biblical doctrine, and my Jewish people refuse to acknowledge it. Therefore, they're living in a fool's paradise.
38:38 -  They have no awareness of their own condition, and if they're caught in a financial scheme on Wall Street, they made an error.
38:45 -  It was a boo-boo. It was a mistake. But it was not a sin. They're willing to pay millions of dollars in penalties,
38:52 -  but they will not acknowledge that there was any gross failure that could be acknowledged as sin.
39:01 -  That's why God has got to lower the boom. Those who will not acknowledge and cry it up are in for a rude day of awakening,
39:13 -  but most blessed is he who in his own soul has learned to lament the truth of his lost estate. Psalm 32, verse 1,
39:26 -  Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven. Not his boo-boo. His condition as transgressor
39:34 -  whose sin is covered because it is acknowledged. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity and in whose spirit there is no guile.
39:48 -  It's a blessedness. Will you take my word for it? And I don't know that I'm in a position to commend it
39:54 -  as if I'm there, but there have been fleeting moments here and there. Increasingly, as I grow older,
40:01 -  and I'm taking this myself more seriously, that once in a while I come to a place of being righteous in God.
40:09 -  And you know, it is so delicious. It comes with such a shalom. There's such a deep peace.
40:15 -  You're clean through and through the cookie. And there's an exhilaration. There's a joy.
40:21 -  You take a deep breath. It's like coming into the truth for which you intended. The pity is that it's not continuous,
40:28 -  that before long there's a blight. There's a misstep that we've not acknowledged. But to keep current with God in that condition is blessed.
40:37 -  Blessed to enjoy. Blessed to experience. Blessed to communicate.
40:42 -  Blessed to extend to others, to come to a place where God does not impute to you iniquity. And that you're free from transgression.
40:52 -  Your sin is covered. The blood has covered. You've been made new in Christ,
40:58 -  and you're maintaining that righteousness because you're quick to confess any iniquity and sin that is ever before you.
41:06 -  You're in relationship with saints whose counsel you welcome and whose speaking the truth to you in love you covet.
41:14 -  It takes more than a saint in his solo condition to keep himself clean and pure in God's sight. Because we have concealed aspects hidden
41:29 -  that cannot be seen by ourselves. And we need the impartation and the speaking of truth by those with whom we are in a regular relationship daily
41:41 -  and who can see the first beginnings of erosion or slippage that would otherwise be unacknowledged. I came back to my original church in New Jersey
41:51 -  after several years apart and found out in the day of my arrival that four of the principal spiritual women of that congregation
42:00 -  had every one of them fallen into the most disgraceful sexual sin. All forfeiting their husbands and all embarked on careers that are horrendous.
42:13 -  The most spiritual of the four women. In our own community, a woman who was my secretary at one time
42:21 -  and loved my message on daughters of Sarah herself went berserk and bonkers. She took a part-time job with an employer
42:30 -  after she and her husband had left the community and fell in love with her new employer. And he was appealing to her ego
42:40 -  to realize that she had talents and abilities that were never called for in Christian community but would be wonderful, salable features in the world of commerce.
42:52 -  Our whole world was open to her and it was a world of sin. And this dear lady fell
42:59 -  and bore this man a child out of wedlock has now divorced her husband who was with us in many trips overseas in ministry
43:09 -  and to this day we are stupefied. We choke, we splutter. How was that possible?
43:15 -  How was it possible for those four women? It didn't happen in a moment. There must have been a process.
43:22 -  There must have been an erosion. There must have been a loss that should have been discerned by the keenly discerning
43:29 -  who are with these people in daily relationship or begin to see something eleven in the lump. Or what about our pastors
43:39 -  who run off with their councilees or the organist or whatsoever? That doesn't happen in a moment.
43:46 -  Have we noticed when their voice starts to become professional? When they've lost the reality of a conversational tone
43:54 -  and they're more and more becoming affected? Did you stop to say, what's with you brother?
44:01 -  I noticed now consistently in these last few weeks the way that you speak has become somewhat studied and artificial and professional.
44:10 -  You're losing the sound of reality. Is something wrong? Something amiss?
44:16 -  And who knows if the man had been confronted then something would have been arrested that later found full expression
44:25 -  in shameful corruption for which the church has not recovered. So we need one another if we're earnest about sin
44:35 -  because God desires truth in the inward parts. Sprinkle me Lord with the toning blood. Give me reality.
44:43 -  Nothing but your blood can take away my blood stains. Nothing but the strongest purification can avail to cleanse me.
44:49 -  Let the sin offering purge my sin. None can need it more than me. Foul as I am,
44:55 -  there is power in the divine propitiation and I shall be whiter than snow. Well, let me leave this for a moment
45:03 -  and give you a little taste of Karl Barth's statement on the pride and fall of man.
45:13 -  That man in his pride creates a world of fantasy in which he becomes the great first
45:23 -  in which every standard is false in which every thought and word becomes self-contradiction and every act and attitude perverted.
45:32 -  The relationship of man and with man is forced to suffer with it. It cannot be otherwise.
45:38 -  This man desires to grasp lordship itself to be as God. He judges himself
45:47 -  and finds himself not guilty or has a way to justify his fornications. It's love. It's art.
45:55 -  It's a moment of truth and precious and will not come again. The other way that men are.
46:04 -  If we don't measure the truth of our condition by the objective standard that God has given and the crucified Christ,
46:14 -  we will necessarily be deceived. If we turn to our own reckoning, our own assessment,
46:20 -  our own subjectivity, our own estimation, we will invariably come out smelling like a rose.
46:28 -  The issue at the revelation of sin is not our subjective sense of it because it will always disguise itself as sin.
46:36 -  The issue of our sin is what God was required to provide as propitiation for it.
46:42 -  When we look to and dwell upon the crucified Christ, then all our pitiful self-justification falls away. But if we ignore or sentimentalize
46:56 -  or in some way trivialize the crucified Christ, then we lose the value of what God has given not only to propitiate for the sin
47:06 -  but to reveal it. The crucified Christ is the statement of God's seriousness
47:14 -  about the human condition. That it required this agony of soul and body to provide an answer for the condition
47:24 -  is the statement of how despairing the condition itself is. You see that what Jesus performed in his death,
47:34 -  not only the propitiation as I've said, but the awareness of the condition of this is what it takes.
47:42 -  So as sinner, what is the condition of man's pride? The refusal to dwell upon and look upon Jesus
47:50 -  or merely to use the name and to be his own judge which leads him into something
47:57 -  which is incorrigibly evil and a complete misunderstanding of God which is at the bottom of the whole human enterprise.
48:07 -  What man wills is objectively evil. Of course, he does not believe that he's doing that which is evil,
48:14 -  but he thinks that that which is good. I'm getting rid of a bum marriage. It's unhappy.
48:21 -  Doesn't seem like there's any prospect of recovery. I've given it my best shot and I'm too young to go on like that
48:29 -  and misspend my future. I deserve something better and it's her fault anyway
48:35 -  and I'll go on and have the ideal thing which is the creation of my own sinful fantasy. The fact that my kids have to suffer,
48:46 -  well, they'll recover and they'll really learn from it what the realities of this life is
48:53 -  because that which is evil, the sinful man makes good. In fact, there's an earnestness,
49:03 -  a pathetic earnestness, an outward air of the most serious responsibility, the most stringent sense of duty,
49:09 -  the most militant virtue. This is describing my son. He's not just affecting a divorce.
49:15 -  He's doing something virtuous. That virtue requires this divorce because the thing is an abomination in itself.
49:24 -  So to continue it is a misspending of time and energy and rightness itself requires that it be shucked off. I cannot say, dear saints, what a revelation
49:38 -  my son's conduct is for me about the truth of man's condition as Karl Barth picks it up and describes it accurately.
49:48 -  Not a sense of contrition or brokenness but a sense of self-justification as if the sin itself is a virtue
49:57 -  where darkness becomes light and light becomes darkness is the pitiful condition of man.
50:06 -  So what he's tearing down is really a building up and that he's justified in doing it and my son even uses the word God
50:14 -  that God is pleased with this. He doesn't use the word Jesus but that amorphous three-letter word
50:22 -  that is a deity of his own making which he needs to establish because that God justifies him
50:29 -  and endorses him in what he is about. Sin is vile, self-justifying, sick takes no cognizance of the evil
50:43 -  and how it affects children and the church and the name of God. The man thinks that he's even doing
50:54 -  as I've said something virtuous he's the strong man. Barth says, I'm already choosing wrong
50:59 -  when I think that I know in order to decide what is right. When I try to accomplish that
51:04 -  which I have chosen as right to use the words of the serpent when our eyes are open to the possibility
51:09 -  of our own exaltation we become truly blind to what is right and wrong. Such a one establishes a whole chain of misery
51:23 -  and deception and is sowing and reaping discord as the children of discord that in the end can only bring wrath.
51:35 -  And what is the basic error? It's a serious error in the view and understanding of God.
51:43 -  If he knew God as God he would know that he could not invoke this God in justification of the course
51:49 -  that he has elected, divorce. But the God that he has appointed is not the God who says
51:56 -  I hate divorce and I hate putting away. And if you're any kind of a believer you need to hate what God hates.
52:03 -  However unhappy the marriage presently is you're in covenant relationship with that one and God is the third party in that covenant
52:12 -  so long as you're together and he's the third chord that does not allow the other courts to snap
52:17 -  there's hope for the future that this covenant-keeping God can affect if you remain in the covenant relationship
52:25 -  however presently unhappy that relationship is. That's God as God. The God who is God is the God of covenant.
52:35 -  The God who is God is the God who hates divorce but the God who men will elect for their self-justification and use the three-letter word
52:44 -  is the object of their own subjectivity their own creation and even if they label it Jesus
52:50 -  does not alter the falsity of that God. The issue of reality is the issue of God as God
52:59 -  and I cannot come upon my son with indignation for his shameful course for which he's now under judgment from his own fellowship
53:11 -  because he grew up in our community and how is it that we did not detect how superficial his salvation is?
53:20 -  How come we didn't see that he's an actor and a mimic and knows how to employ the vocabulary?
53:26 -  How come we didn't see his flirtatious nature that would work out into infidelities in his later life?
53:33 -  Something is wanting in us as was wanting in those men who informed the church worldwide
53:41 -  that the leading prophet called the Oracle of the Hour was in a state of homosexuality and alcoholism
53:48 -  and was refusing to be corrected or disciplined. I understand now that he's yielding to that and they had to confess in that letter
53:57 -  that though we have known this man and related with him intimately we are embarrassed to say we did not detect
54:04 -  the condition before it became full blown. Something is wrong in the whole atmosphere of our Christianity
54:11 -  that that can go on that my son could grow up in Christian community and deceive himself and us
54:17 -  until it has its outworking the tragic rejection of his marriage and the consequence that falls upon his three sons.
54:26 -  Something is wanting in the whole fabric of our Christianity because we do not know God as we ought
54:34 -  and we're not making him known as we ought because the issue of God begins with the issue of sin.
54:40 -  If we're shy there and short there the inadequacy will permeate the entire lump. Our ignorance of God
54:49 -  means that we conceive and hold and constantly return to the stupid and ridiculous notion
54:54 -  that we can take our place at his side as though he were a God who needed to be completed by us and helped by our counsel.
55:01 -  We are deceived in this and in this self-deception in this delusion
55:06 -  that we are doing good and avoiding evil we actually eschew the good and do evil. Divorce is evil.
55:12 -  Its consequences are evil. All this is pure delusion that one performs in the so-called
55:19 -  liberating of oneself to enjoy a certain creaturely place to think that you're bestowing life
55:27 -  and freedom and joy to one's soul. This is what man thinks he can do because the compelling force
55:34 -  in all that is false is that we can acquire this or that and that we will succeed in being our own helper
55:40 -  and redeemer and savior. We'll make it right. The next marriage will be better.
55:45 -  Try and try again. This God that is imagined is a kind of artificial
55:52 -  supernatural completion of the sinner's own will who is sincere and even exhibits a kind of false piety
56:02 -  that this is God honoring and God pleasing. Can you imagine? Invoking God as justification
56:09 -  and that what you're doing is cleaning up an unhappy condition and that God will actually be blessed
56:15 -  by the necessity of shocking the one and taking on another. That man's sin is of such a kind
56:23 -  that not only will he perform this but will invoke God not only to justify it
56:30 -  but claim that he's doing God a service. And my son is like that. He's talking about God
56:37 -  as if what he's doing is spiritual when it is so unmistakably and painfully carnal but such is the nature of the deception
56:48 -  that has sucked him down into this vortex in which I'm praying that the Lord will bring him all the way down
56:56 -  that he might bring him up that he might come to a place of brokenness and contrition
57:02 -  and authentic repentance and restoration or else he'll be doomed to be a spiritual phony all the rest of his days.
57:11 -  If this is what it takes to reveal the truth of his condition then okay.
57:18 -  If there was no other way to reveal that truth but to allow him to embark on an adventure of divorce and remarriage
57:27 -  only to see the whole thing turned into a shambles and that the end will be worse than the beginning in order to bring him back to the reality at the first
57:37 -  then so be it. Because God will be doing that exactly with Israel. The whole nation will be brought into an awareness
57:46 -  of its sinful condition or how shall it be a nation of priests and a light to the world.
57:52 -  So that in Spurgeon's commentary one of the beauties of it is you read other commentaries that Spurgeon has culled
58:01 -  from what of the literature that was available at his time that is now no longer extent. You cannot find it.
58:08 -  And so you're reading the comments of British saints who deep in their insight that would have been lost to us
58:15 -  if Spurgeon had not assembled and included it in his commentary. One of them says,
58:20 -  I cannot doubt the prophetic bearing of this Psalm 51 upon the nation Israel. In the latter days they shall consider their ways.
58:30 -  Repentance and self-loathing will be the result. Blood guiltiness heavier than David's has to be removed from that nation.
58:39 -  Read Isaiah chapter 4. It talks about purging the blood stains from Jerusalem through the spirit of purging
58:51 -  because that sin is increasing. They will become teachers of the Gentiles when first the iniquity of their own transgressions
59:00 -  has been purged away. The whole nation Israel must pass through a Psalm 51 experience
59:08 -  because we have no consciousness of the truth of our condition as sinners. We see ourselves as morally superior to Gentiles
59:19 -  and we're living in a delusion that the realities that are being everyday revealed in our conduct with Palestinians
59:28 -  is beginning to break upon us. How are we capable? Whoever thought that Jews would torture captives?
59:35 -  Whoever thought that we would employ violence? Whoever thought that we would intimidate and threaten in order to placate it
59:42 -  and to repress a threatening Palestinian community? That we would employ devices of this kind? And even toward our own Israeli people
59:52 -  force and violence to suppress and to keep down those whose dissent would make our political policies threatened? The very dilemma of Israel is God's provision
01:00:06 -  for the revelation of the truth of our condition which would never before would have been seen until we have come into a place of power ourselves
01:00:17 -  because power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely but so long as we're Jews living in exile in ghettos and not in a place of authority and power
01:00:28 -  how shall we see the truth of our condition? Not the least of the reasons for the establishment of the state of Israel
01:00:36 -  is not to provide a basis for its success but a basis for its revelation of what the truth is of our condition as a nation that would not otherwise be seen
01:00:47 -  until we were in a position ourselves to express power. Something about sinful man does not want to acknowledge limitation. Though God says he hates divorce
01:00:58 -  though God says he's the God of covenant we shock off the limitation of God himself and find a way to liberate ourselves
01:01:06 -  for the indulgence of our own lust. Sinful man doesn't want to limit how many concubines did David have
01:01:15 -  and how many wives how many precious wives and yet when he sees one more beautiful woman
01:01:23 -  he feels free to indulge a lust by which he must be acquired and if he requires the death of her husband to legitimize that relationship that too is justified.
01:01:38 -  This is not a lonely man who is desperate for feminine companionship he had it in abundance
01:01:45 -  but he could not abide a limit. Not to submit to a limit is the statement of our human depravity
01:01:54 -  wanting to extend and go beyond it. The Lord has set the limit of the seas and coasts and their boundaries
01:02:04 -  but man does not want to be limited even by God. He wants to cross the limit he wants to find his freedom and his dream and its fiction
01:02:17 -  that he might be gracious to himself behaving as this dream figure in his fantasy. This is man in sin
01:02:25 -  fantasizing, justifying, imagining and setting in motion a whole train of circumstances the end of which is tragic.
01:02:36 -  So create in me a clean heart, O God and renew a right spirit within me. Do not cast me away from your presence
01:02:45 -  do not take your Holy Spirit from me I need your Holy Spirit I cannot walk rightly
01:02:51 -  I cannot be what I ought without the reality of that life and that spirit and that power.
01:03:00 -  I need your presence blood out my iniquities don't be alienated from me
01:03:08 -  because you cannot abide the truth of my sinful condition blood it out, restore to me the joy of your salvation
01:03:16 -  because that joy is power, it's reality sustain me with a willing spirit then I will teach transgressors your ways
01:03:24 -  and sinners will return to you deliver me from bloodshed, O God God of my salvation
01:03:31 -  and my tongue will single out of your deliverance. Open my mouth, open my lips and my mouth will declare your praise
01:03:39 -  not my cheap glib and easy talk but true words, life-giving words, saving words when you'll open my mouth having purged me
01:03:51 -  given me a clean heart, a new spirit that I might make your cause known then you'll have delight
01:04:01 -  because what you're after is not burnt offering but the sacrifice acceptable to God is a broken spirit
01:04:09 -  a broken and contrite heart, O God you will not despise. And that's the way we began, saints
01:04:16 -  something is wrong and wanting in the church our own talk of sin is ceasing to be the talk of broken and contrite men
01:04:26 -  it has no note of humiliation or brokenness in it our pious heart does not mediate terror we are not frightened at ourselves
01:04:35 -  we're not aware of the truth of our condition we're in some measure of deception of a self-celebrating kind
01:04:43 -  because somehow, unconsciously we're saying that David's condition is not ours because we've not experienced it
01:04:55 -  God forbid that we should need the experience to attest to its truth because all of us, as with David
01:05:03 -  were conceived in iniquity and are innately unrighteous self-seeking, sensual
01:05:12 -  unwilling to submit to restriction and limit finding ways to exceed it justifying ourselves
01:05:19 -  and the heck of it is in all of that activity and conduct thinking that God does not see will you pray with me for the church?
01:05:30 -  We're stuck our foundations are not yet on the rock we're in some quasi-half state of acknowledgement
01:05:40 -  but not in depth there's a cry an anguished cry for God waits
01:05:47 -  as we read in Psalm 32 blessed is the man whose iniquity is not imputed to him
01:05:53 -  who is covered God is able that's why David's cry
01:05:59 -  oh God have mercy upon me blot out my transgressions that are ever with me
01:06:04 -  only you can there's no other place or person to whom I can turn only you can create in me
01:06:11 -  a clean heart and renew a right spirit within me only you can uphold me by your Holy Spirit only your presence
01:06:18 -  is coming to God with an urgency and a totality that makes God God in reality
01:06:26 -  by which we come only by the acknowledgement of the truth of our Davidic condition as man nothing else will bring us
01:06:38 -  to God and the revelation of his Christ that this is what our sin has required
01:06:47 -  dwell upon him when I will be raised up I will draw all men to myself
01:06:53 -  don't judge and evaluate yourself by your own subjectivity your own standards they will be invariably false
01:07:00 -  judge yourself by what the Father in his deep knowledge of the truth of our condition realized was necessary both to reveal our sin
01:07:10 -  and to expiate it the crucified Christ every sin against God
01:07:17 -  is the refusal to consider the cross the refusal to consider the crucified one or to trivialize that death and that sacrifice
01:07:25 -  and pray and sing about the blood but we're not the depth of conviction of those who have availed themselves of it in truth
01:07:33 -  and if we're wrong there and if we're shallow there where are we right?
01:07:37 -  where are we true? where are we deep? where are we real?
01:07:42 -  Lord if I have to give myself a rating from 0 to 10 it will be at the bottom
01:07:51 -  I'm totally dissatisfied with this presentation the subject deserves something much better
01:08:00 -  than I was able to bring forth though I've been praying to you for mercy throughout the day knowing how difficult a subject this is
01:08:09 -  and how long it has suffered neglect and how opposed any true exposition is that would bring conviction
01:08:17 -  by the powers of darkness the world, the flesh and the devil that is ever with us
01:08:22 -  we are a self-justifying bunch we don't want to see the truth as you see it and so my God, our condition is sorry, lamentable
01:08:38 -  we're not connecting Lord in this foundational reality and we ask mercy
01:08:47 -  and right throughout this congregation you know perfectly where liberties are taken, have been taken
01:08:56 -  that have been self-justified where we've been our own judge and we have, what's the word
01:09:06 -  freed ourselves from any sentence found a way to justify it my son David, my God is a picture
01:09:14 -  of tens upon tens upon tens of unnumbered thousands who are full of self-justifying persuasion even invoking the word God
01:09:26 -  and have separated themselves from the God who is God and found a way to circumvent his clear statement I hate divorce
01:09:37 -  to break his covenant as if he's not capable of taking even the most lamentable present condition of a marriage
01:09:45 -  and bringing a healing and a restoration if we will trust, if we will remain if we will bear up
01:09:52 -  if we will not let our eyes fall on another tempting alternative that is only too available that promises us a sweeter time
01:10:01 -  free from the present friction if we'll not be disposed to want to be free of limit so my God, mercy on the church
01:10:13 -  mercy on the church, Lord let a cry begin to well up for the truth of our condition
01:10:21 -  that does not wait for foul deeds to prove it the cry of David is justified now God forbid we should need proof
01:10:33 -  and that even the waiting for proof is a statement of that sinful condition that refuses to acknowledge the truth of your word
01:10:42 -  unless it's verified by our own experience and when that experience comes we find a way to justify and to dismiss it
01:10:48 -  it wasn't really adultery it wasn't really fornication it was love, it was poetry, it was romance
01:10:57 -  so Lord, what shall we say but mercy, Lord mercy, my God, mercy for the Davids that are so everywhere about us
01:11:08 -  out of our own families how many people came up to me after that night when I shared about my son
01:11:12 -  to say, my own son is exactly odd in that condition that you've described I said, how many tens upon tens of thousands are in it
01:11:20 -  there's something lamentable about the church and its lack of seriousness about sin it has not become exceedingly sinful
01:11:29 -  it does not anguish our souls we don't see it as a kind of a cancer and a corruption that we cannot abide until
01:11:37 -  the hyssop and the blood purges us we've learned to live with it to shrug it off
01:11:45 -  to make excuses to lessen it as sin and find ways to explain it as circumstance
01:11:54 -  Lord, mercy, mercy, mercy Lord that is unbecoming to your Christ he would not have been necessary
01:12:05 -  help us in these foundations help us Lord, help us even in the exposition and the message of it Lord
01:12:13 -  by your spirit to make it convicting to break us, to bring contrition and brokenness to the church
01:12:21 -  if not for its own personal condition for the church itself at large that has become superficial
01:12:29 -  and sentimental and trivialize both the cross and the God of the cross and therefore is not the witness in the earth
01:12:36 -  to a dying mankind and to a lost Israel help us Lord in your mercy we pray
01:12:42 -  let not this word fall to the ground let it perform its work we pray because you're merciful
01:12:50 -  in Jesus' name, amen