Reflections on the Tent of Shem

00:00 -  That is to take up again on the theme of the Tent of Shem that was introduced at the first and was never again alluded to or developed. I wouldn't mind an opportunity just to sound that a little bit more fully and have the advantage of the Bob and others sitting in to
00:19 -  interact over that and to give me feedback because it's a new thought for me, not at all formed, that's very embryonic, but I'm beginning to see something that might be worth our consideration. The indignation of Jesus in the turning over of the money changes tables in the temple court.
00:38 -  We understand it's called the court of the Gentiles and the indignation that Jesus expressed in an uncommon way violently grating whips and overturning tables was that you've made of my father's house a den of thieves. The house is intended as a prayer, house of prayer for all nations. Here's
01:05 -  the thing that needs to register on our deepest consciousness. The great redemptive saga of God in the election of Israel is not for Israel's sake per se, but for all nations. Israel is to be the repository. Israel is to be the focal point. Israel is to be the teaching priestly nation and the
01:27 -  nations are drawn to her house as a house of prayer for all nations. So we were touching this before our break, the majesty of God's temple filled with his glory and at the end of the age, sometimes it's good to look at the end and then work back in Zechariah chapter 14 when the Lord
01:48 -  comes as a deliverer to Israel in her final extremity. Verse 5, the Lord my God will come and all the holy ones with him. Verse 8, on that day living water shall flow out from Jerusalem. Verse 9, and the Lord will become king over all the earth and on that day the Lord will be one and
02:10 -  his name one. The priestly identity of the Lord, the high priest of our confession, is combined with his royal kingship. He's a priest-king and the place of his domain is Jerusalem on the Holy Hill of Zion on the throne of David because he himself is the eternal son of David and alone
02:35 -  is qualified through that inheritance and descent to be king over Israel forever and therefore through Israel to all nations. We have to recognize the theocratic intention of God in the whole redemptive drama. Israel is not a thing in itself and when the disciples after 40 days of instruction
02:59 -  by the resurrected king on those things pertaining to the kingdom, he'd only taught exclusively on that one subject and it took 40 days. They said to him, is it time now to restore the kingdom to Israel? If ever the Lord had opportunity in one breath to sweep aside some narrow nationalistic
03:22 -  provincial tribal jealousy for its own glory, he had it then. But he'd never dismissed the question. He said it's just not time now to consider that. First there are other things, way to Jerusalem, but the question itself was totally valid, totally biblical, totally within the context of Israel's
03:40 -  destiny and within the understanding of the people of Israel that they were intended for a kingdom and as a kingdom to bless all the nations of the earth. And so we see in Zechariah that fulfillment when the Lord will become king over all the earth and the psalmist sing this out that his
04:01 -  praise shall come to all the ends of the earth. They never were narrow provincial. Their deity was not a tribal deity. He was the God of all the earth, the king of glory, the creator and I think that this dimension is lost to the church and that the kingdom of God has collapsed and has
04:21 -  become something inward subjective. The kingdom of God is within. How that statement has been misconstrued as if it's only a subjective and personal thing or a kind of a moral standard that the church is to emulate. All of those things have their place, but the ultimate and
04:37 -  truest meaning of the kingdom that must be restored to our consciousness or will not be capable of the sacrifice for its attainment is the kingdom as the locus of God's theocratic rule. That's almost a redundancy because cratic means rule. Democratic from the Greek demos means rule
04:59 -  by the people, which ain't bad, but it's not ultimate. It'll always be corrupt so long as man brings his corruption to it. But when the king rules, it's the most, what shall we say, just, righteous. There's nothing in it for himself. He's not a professional politician obtaining rules for
05:21 -  his own self-aggrandizement. The very nature of the king is for the other. So we need to look to that. Thy kingdom come is the one prayer that Jesus taught the disciples and we have lost the sense of the kingdom as kingdom, as the rule of God over his own creation, but the powers of the
05:41 -  air know it more profoundly than we. And that's why they will seek the extermination of Jews. Why? Because except that they return to Zion, except that they be a redeemed nation for which the king waits to be enthroned above them, the rule of the nations will continue to reside in the
06:05 -  principalities and powers of the air. The rulers of this world's darkness, and Psalm 2 speaks of that, the kings and the rulers take thought against the Lord and against his anointed. They rage. Why? They want to break the band's ascender of the Lord and his anointed. They don't want to see their
06:23 -  political control over the nations extinguished. And they know that if his son comes, whom he has established on the holy hill of Zion, they're finished. So what is their wisdom dictate? How do they avoid this terrible calamity of the forfeiture and the end of their own usurping rule? By
06:46 -  extinguishing or annihilating those Jews so that they shall not return to Zion. If you don't understand that, you will not understand the vehemence and the bitterness and the rage that will pursue Jews relentlessly in all nations as the time of Jacob's trouble right to the end.
07:05 -  The Lord will use it, but there'll be a great attrition that we need to understand what is the nexus of the fury against them by the powers of the air working through unregenerate peoples to extinguish and annihilate this people. And when we look back in history, the Nazi time and every
07:23 -  previous time that Jews have narrowly survived, it has been this same animus, this same vehemence, anger and bitterness against that people to eliminate them entirely. So there'll be no prospect of their return and hence no prospect of the establishment of that kingdom. It's the
07:43 -  kingdom of David. Is it time now to restore the kingdom to Israel? Not yet. But when there is time, it's not a kingdom for Israel. It's the kingdom for the nations. But it has its locus in the place of God's election and choice, the holy hill of Zion. Why that, Lord? Certainly there are more
08:04 -  impressive locations than that little bump on the log, which is consonant and in keeping with my own character, who is lowly and meek. That's why you'll find two asses tied up in the village, Yonder. Bring them both. If anyone stops you, tell them that the Lord has need of them. What
08:24 -  does he need two for? Well, one is the adult animal and the other is its foal or its cult. And so what does the Lord do? He dismisses the mature animal and takes that beast upon which never man sat. And he sits on that and comes down the slope of the Mount of Olives. If you've ever
08:42 -  been there, you cannot walk down that slope and maintain your dignity. It is too precipitous. But he comes down upon an animal whose legs are unsteady, a full grown man upon which no man has ever sat. And when the people see that, they shout Hosanna to the king. And the kingdom has come in
09:02 -  the same way as the king, lowly and meek. He chooses the lowly place. He chooses the weak thing. He chooses the foolish thing. He said, I didn't choose you, Israel, because you are mighty and great among the nations. I chose you because you were least. And you'll be least until the time that
09:20 -  I shall restore you. You'll be reduced to zero. But then I will exalt you and give you a name above all nations. And all nations will pay homage to you and to the king who has raised you up from being abased to being exalted. For you shall be central to all nations. And so that Deuteronomy 32 8 might
09:39 -  be fulfilled. That when God established the number of the nations, he did so in terms of the number of the sons of Israel. A little cryptic verse. Remarkable how those little clues get in there. And then I'll not mention it again. That from the very beginning of God's redemptive history,
09:58 -  I love that German word, Heil's Geschichte. Geschichte in German is history. Heil is salvation. There's a salvation history that is unknown to our American consciousness. The Germans somehow have a greater affinity to see the breadth of God's intention than we. Zechariah 14. What is the end
10:20 -  of all this? In verse 16, then all who survive of the nations that have come against Jerusalem shall go up year after year to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, and to keep the festival of booths, the feast of tabernacles, which is the feast of in gathering. Now the in gathering is
10:42 -  from all nations. And that was the intention of that feast from the first. Israel kept it as type, but its fulfillment is when all nations are gathered in to the one place of God's intention, Jerusalem, the city of the great king, to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, and to keep the
11:05 -  festival of booths. If any of the families of the earth do not go up to Jerusalem to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, there'll be no rain upon them. And then it describes the judgment that will fall on those Gentile nations who are still intractable, still resentful, and still unwilling to yield to
11:24 -  the thing that God has chosen. You only have to understand the wisdom of God who knows the hearts of men. And there is such a thing as Gentile pride, and nothing flushes it out and reveals it more acutely than the unwillingness to defer to that nation, to that people whom God has chosen
11:41 -  to be at the vortex or the center of his whole kingdom reign. They will still not go up. Or you won't go up. You're still stubbornly refusing the people whom I have chosen because your real rebellion is not against them but against me. But it's revealed in your obstinate refusal to
12:03 -  accede to them because you're too proud. You want the kingdom to be at Mount Everest or Geneva or New York City or some such place, and God has chosen this despicable Zion, a shameful, scandalous nation that has blasphemed your name throughout all nations in all history,
12:21 -  and yet you will employ that to be the locus of your throne and rule? Yes. Why? Because my kingdom is not of this world. It's not worldly. I don't celebrate what the world celebrates. I have another wisdom. I choose the weak, the lowly, the foolish. And I abase them, but then I exalt
12:45 -  them, not because they're deserving, not because they have any merit in themselves, but because I am that I am. Nothing more reveals God as the I am that I am but the thing that he chooses. Can you see it? How wise of God to choose that one people, that Semitic people that would make every
13:05 -  Japheth nation chafe at the choice because each one of them, Germany, France, Great Britain, even Japan, would see themselves as better candidates to be the locus of world rule than that people and that place. That's exactly why they're chosen. So all of this goes back to this
13:32 -  little cryptic reference of Deuteronomy 32.8 that when God determined the number of nations, always with reference to that one nation, and then when Noah pronounced the blessing or the curse, he said, and you Japheth shall be enlarged. That's what the very name Japheth means. You will become
13:52 -  the technically proficient one in the world. You will establish the economy, the culture, all of the things that constitute civilization, both in its blessing and in its threat. But my provision for you is that you shall dwell in the tent of Shem. You shall come in to the place of
14:12 -  God's intention and there, because you have to bow to enter, something shall be provided for you from that Semitic nation that is called to be priestly and to be dwellers in tents. They are pilgrims, sojourner people. They are never to be established in the world. They are never to be
14:30 -  one with the other nations. They have to retain their distinct spiritual, Davidic, Hebraic, Semitic character, for that is God's very grace for the Japheth nations. Without that, the Japheth nations left to themselves will exalt their enlargement and will compete with one another and rival and
14:53 -  fight their wars and bring World War I, World War II, 40 million, 60 million, 80 million, world devastation unless they are tempered in the one place that will bring the quotient and dimension of God as God and that people elected to know it, paint it, and make it known, the Shemite,
15:15 -  the Hebrew, the chosen people of God. But you know what the heck of it is? Who is more Japheth today than Israel, than the present state of Israel in their technology, in their warfare, in their violence, in the way they conduct themselves, and the way they desire even to be.
15:32 -  They want to be like all other Japheth nations. They don't want to be Semitic. They don't want to be pilgrims. They don't want to be the dwellers of the tent and the altar. But God has called them with an irrevocable call. So how is the nation to be instructed into its own call and fulfill
15:52 -  its own destiny by the example given to it by a people called the church who are drawn out of the nations and whose character has been changed and been made Semitic by its union with its God and by its yieldedness to his Ruach as to show to Israel what God's own intention for them is.
16:14 -  We have to present to Israel a tent which they might enter so that they might then themselves be the provision of God for all nations and that all nations will come up to their tent, come up to their Jerusalem, come up to their feast, come up to their instruction, that the
16:36 -  Gentiles of ten nations will clutch the skirt of a Jew and say, take us to your God for you know him. You really know him because you've learned him in the school of hard knocks. You've learned him both in his judgment and in his mercy. Your knowledge of him is not Talmudic. It's not
16:54 -  rabbinical. It's out of the cross. It's out of the suffering, out of walking the very path of your Lord before you in a road to Calvary in your own last day's sufferings. You've learned what judgment is, but you've learned also what mercy is, and now you can make him known in his totality.
17:12 -  The saving grace of Japheth is to dwell in the tent of Shem which he must bow or break to enter. The very act of submitting to God's intention is the very act of humbling, for what rules the nation and corrupts them is their own pride. But you can't enter that tent, let alone dwell in it,
17:31 -  unless you bow. But now the problem is there is no tent for the nations until Israel itself comes into that identity. But how shall they know of it or learn of it except through the demonstration or the model given by the church itself? That's why Paul said, I'm a man out of time and out of
17:54 -  What you see in me is a foretaste or a foreview of God's own calling to my entire nation. I'm the apostle to the Gentiles. What an ironic choice. Shouldn't you have been the apostle to the Jews? Who else has such an exalted rabbinical background as yourself? The chief prize student
18:14 -  of Rabbi Gamaliel, and you're made the apostle to the Goyim? And some dumb fisherman has not your credentials, is made the apostle to the circumcisions? What kind of logic is that? Perfect. Because Paul has got to be to the Gentile church what the nation Israel will subsequently be
18:35 -  to the nations themselves. You remember when Paul called the elders of Ephesus to tell them that you'll see my face no more? You know what man I was with you from the beginning? You know that I didn't lord it over you? You know I didn't look down my Jewish nose in contempt for you as Gentiles?
18:52 -  You know that I was a father to you and a mother and I was with you day and night weeping and from house to house and in every public place commending the whole council of God and I never sought anything from you? Yes they know. That was so un-Jewish. That was so un-Pharisaical. It's so
19:11 -  contradicted everything that Gentiles would associate with Jews. And this Hebrew of the Hebrews did not come to them in the stereotyped expectation of Gentiles. He came to them apostolically. He came to them as a transcendent man from heaven that eclipsed natural identity and brought the
19:32 -  very sense of the lord himself. So much so that at least in one case they were ready to worship him as God. When he said you'll see my face no more and he invited them to pray they went down on their knees and they hung on his neck and wept. I'm not a sentimental man but if there's anything
19:53 -  that touches me in scripture that touches me because I understand what that means. That Gentiles are not just grateful well thanks brother you were very faithful but more than that what you communicated what you what you were for us right your devotion and tireless service
20:10 -  without an iota of any kind of racial or religious superiority that you went under us you bore us up you travail that Christ performed in us how shall we ever express our gratitude you have saved them saved us out of paganism and death and you've made us hebraic you brought us into the tree
20:28 -  we're grafted in by your labors your proclamation of the gospel and the example that you were for us and they hung upon his neck and wept. The reason I'm so touched is not just what is represented at that moment but can you believe that not to this in
20:47 -  the time from now all the nations that are now forming at the mouth against Israel will be the same ones that will hang on her neck and weep that will love her and be grateful for her priestly demonstration and ministry to the goyim and that and that these jews will perform that without
21:08 -  any kind of racial religious superiority for we jews are famous for our superior contempt of the gentile and yet we will be like Paul Paul said you see me is a foreshadowing of what the entire nation will be that's God's intention and that's how he will reconcile all nations to himself
21:30 -  for abraham was chosen right after the tower of babel was built and the rebellion of nations to make a name for themselves and to exalt themselves above God God brought that down and dispersed those nations and the very next chapter we read that he calls a man out of word
21:47 -  to call these way by the name of abraham to begin with him who does not seek a name for himself to give him a name above every name and a nation above every nation but it begins with a man's obedience to come out and follow lord and lend that he will show him this is the inception of
22:04 -  God's answer to the rebellion of the nations and zachariah 14 is the final consummation all the nations coming up to jerusalem to worship the God of all the earth and what we read in ephesians earlier today is the same thing in chapter two of ephesians now
22:25 -  therefore you are no more strangers and foreigners but fellow citizens with the saints and the household of God and are built upon the foundation the apostles and prophets yeshuaham ashiach himself being the chief cornerstone in whom all the building fitly
22:38 -  framed together grows unto a holy temple of war in whom you also are built together for the habitation of God through the spirit the theme keeps recurring God is forming something a tent a tabernacle a temple in order to give the nations a place by which they might pray my house is a
23:00 -  prayer for all nations we've got to read this is Israel's destiny this is the church's destiny that when we will have established this temple then the Israel who are opposing themselves in their ignorance the jews who are the enemies of the gospel will see the thing to which they are
23:22 -  called in what is represented to them by the church that foreshadows it in the temple made of living stones so the church Israel has an apostolate to the nations but it has got first to glimpse what apostolic is and that's the reality that we're called to convey
23:42 -  that they might understand and see in us what is their own calling and that the nations then will have the access to God provided by an Israel that has fulfilled its destiny as the tent of shin but if we ourselves this was my message to canada to substantial saints men with a history
24:06 -  written books and all of these things but when i suggested to them that the fly in the ointment and the thing in the obstruction that is keeping this from fulfillment is the unwillingness of ourselves as gentile christians to humble ourselves and break and bow and enter the tent of shin
24:24 -  when i gave an invitation to bow and to enter the outrage the irritation the anger the vexation as if i was inviting people to another altar and another God there's something deep there's something intractable in gentile pride that is that nowhere surfaces and is nowhere seen except
24:45 -  when the call to the jew comes they don't want this association they don't want this identification we are an autonomous thing we are the Israel of God we are replacement you know all of the expressions that the church has taken in isolation from the identification with Israel and yet the
25:04 -  thing that saves Israel in the last days is that very identification when my servants shall take pity on her stones and have compassion on her dust the deliverer shall come out of cyan God waits for something from an essentially gentile church that has humbled itself to bow and to enter
25:24 -  and to come into a relationship a pathos sympathy and identification with that people that is not to be expected of gentiles and when we do then we show to them the very thing to which they are called and must be for the nations i even went so far as to suggest
25:47 -  this very bowing to enter is itself the key to apostolicity it's remarkable it will not be found independent of the humbling relation relationship to which God calls the church to the jew that that very humbling is the key to apostolic character and to fulfillment and what we're seeing today
26:11 -  in phony apostleship and systems being established by men is in complete absence of an identification or even a consideration of the subject of Israel and the jew the thing that i have noticed in the occasions that have been provided how absent completely any reference to Israel or to the jew
26:32 -  is in those conferences and occasions that are called prophetic they have nothing to say it's not part of their consciousness they are systems builders using the language of apostolicity and propheticness but missing the genius of it because they omit the key which is a humbling recognition
26:54 -  and identification with the despised people because what is the tent of shen if it is not the character of God so i'm just playing with this and i would invite your help what what is this tent of shen and to which japheth must enter is it something just ethnic racial jewish in any way that we
27:16 -  understand that what is the semitic root that even precedes jewish even precedes hebrew well hebrew was not even a word until abraham the sunlight from where they call these crossed over a river and came into a land that is not dominated by a river rising and falling like denial and is
27:37 -  not a great tributary of commerce like the euphrates or the tigris but it's just a little stream called jordan and that a man would no longer look down for his sustenance would look up to the God of the early rain and the latter rain when you cross over from dependency of looking down
27:53 -  to a dependency of looking up where the rains are not automatic but relative to your covenant obedience you're on to another it's another ball game you're on semitic ground and abraham was the the man of the tent and the altar that's a word tent itself
28:12 -  uh gives the indication of someone who's not fixed and seeing to his own establishment and it's transient it's flimsy it's it's something that shows another kind of disposition that your purpose is not your own and you'll pick up and move that
28:30 -  wherever the lord bids you're not here to acquire property fame prestige all the kinds of things that mark the gentile world you want to represent something of an entirely other kind that's heavenly and that tent implies contemplation isaac was a man of the tent
28:52 -  it's a place where you go in to find a time with God away from distraction it's a place to meditate to consider the lord it's a place of simplicity it's a place of humility it's a place of innocence and i picked up on the word innocence as bob used it last night and i asked him privately
29:10 -  when the meeting was over what do you mean by innocence because innocence we usually attribute to children they're innocent because they've never been exposed and they go through life you know they trust anyone and you can give them a lollipop and take them into a car and rape and kill them
29:26 -  you're so innocent they don't know evil but the innocence of the semite and the dweller of the tent that alone makes the reception of japheth a redemptive thing is an innocence that does not come from ignorance but comes through exposure Jesus knew what was in man but it did not make
29:45 -  him cynical he knew exactly what was in man and would not trust himself to them but it never made him cynical caustic wise alecky condemning there's an innocence that is better than the innocence of children it's the innocence of those who have seen evil have themselves been
30:03 -  involved in evil and have been saved out of evil and have transcended evil and have come to a quality of purity as if they had never touched it it's not an innocence that you obtain because you have been shielded and we've lived in glass houses but those that are in the world not of the
30:22 -  world know its realities know its truths but yet have maintained a certain disposition of character that can be called innocence in the most profound sense i'm trying to identify this type of shaman oswald chambers because when you said the word utter immediately i was reminded i've not read
30:40 -  this in anyone else but chambers occasionally uses the phrase an utterness to a God watchman a chinese believer the last that you would expect he's not even descendant from shim also uses the phrase an utterness toward God think on that this utterness has only one perspective
31:01 -  the glory of God it has only one jealousy it has only one constraint it has only one principle it's rooted in a God consciousness utterness toward God that's the tent of shim what is the consciousness of japheth my glory my honor my name my exaltation my prestige my fame my wealth
31:20 -  my power they've got to come into place that is a total contradiction to the false principle by which the world lives its life and dies and it's got to be not just pronounced by men but exemplified and shown by those who are authentically submitted whether they're born in china or born in
31:37 -  scotland that's that's what God is after but it's going to take a crisis for us to come through to that kind of faith because our present christianity is far too gentilic far too prestige minded far too concerned for fame for the establishment of our ministry all this all that
31:57 -  and not enough of this utterness toward God so there's a bowing and a breaking and an entering into the dimension where God will alone meet us this this is the genius of shen and it's available to every man regardless of his natural descent and made all the more glorious
32:17 -  because it is not the issue of natural descent and as i said to that canadian audience i have no more advantage than you the fact that i'm born jewish does not equip me i've got to come the same way into shemite consciousness in reality as you through the operation of the cross and separation
32:34 -  unto God and union with him it's not an issue of what is natural it's an issue of what is supernatural but unless we seek it unless we're conscious of it unless we understand what the distinctive of the church must be where Israel itself cannot be moved to jealousy how shall
32:49 -  we attain it we need to recognize those things that are gentle i hope that you've not flinched every time i've used that word in these days i'm not pointing at that natural designation i'm pointing at a mentality a greek mode of being an exaltation of certain values that are contrary
33:08 -  to God to be semitic is to be heavenly and the great semite is Jesus himself and when you read of his walk and talk he doesn't at all come through jewishly he comes through transcendently something above what is understood as jewish piety in fact he's even a contradiction to that
33:27 -  piety and for which reason he was so dangerous that only that had evoked his death present jewish thing is totally jafeth right totally power minded totally prestige minded they win the awards the nobel prizes they establish power they're the high tech civilization of the middle east they
33:46 -  emphasize military force nuclear capability is totally a jafeth mentality how shall they glimpse what is their own calling except they see it made manifest where they least expect to find it in gentiles who have come into a shem-like identity peter himself exhibits this gentilic
34:05 -  mentality when after the father has spoken this is my son in whom i will please let us build free right he wants to make permanent he wants to manifest monumentally exactly typically gentilicate typically jafeth he himself had to become semitic by the power of the spirit and the conversion that
34:24 -  came by his own betrayal of christ it took that kind of radical coming to his end in order to be the semite which is the root of his apostolness or apostolicity and the same thing for us for Paul never explains how it is that they have to be moved to jealousy what is it that they need to
34:42 -  see that that they don't already have and have yet more superbly than ourselves their services their buildings their synagogues their rabbis their erudition their hebrew their liturgy leaves us in their shade we're creaking and groaning like like a putt putt next to them the kind of magic
35:01 -  majesty that they have in in their religious realm so we're not going to make them jealous in that way what do they need to see the genius of God's intention for them that will be the very salvation for the nations of the world why will ten gentiles clutch the spirit of a jew because
35:21 -  he's got something to communicate and i was already giving such evidence of it that these gentile nations know that unless they obtain it from them they themselves are lost to their own gentileness which has always been in the last analysis war destruction mayhem and collapse the man of the
35:37 -  tenth is a moral man and when i was in albania and they had me to speak to the teachers and administrators of the high school that this christian group had founded the word that the lord gave me was to these teachers don't you know that your vocation as teachers is a moral vocation
35:56 -  are you bringing a moral quotient into your classroom through your subject matter they didn't even know what i was talking about i was the jew i was the hebrew talking about a dimension of consciousness that was unknown to them and it took some elaboration i don't know to what degree
36:13 -  it succeeded what does this word moral mean this this issue of a sense of rightness of what is just what is merciful what is true what what what reflects God you mean you you can communicate that through secular subject matter not only can you but if you don't you really fail as a teacher
36:36 -  for teaching is a noble vocation and the object of it is not the mere communication of earthly information but the communication of a moral quotient that will awaken in your students a sensibility to begin to think in terms of good and bad evil right and wrong how shall i walk how
36:54 -  shall i live the man of the tent is steeped in that kind of consideration not what works not what is expedient not what is practical not what will be the payoff what is moral what what is truth what is what is righteous that's that's the man of the tent and that's a saving grace for the world
37:14 -  if Israel will come into her identity and be it for the nations but it will not be except for us our example our model our moving into jealousy in this very thing and that's the pathos that God i think was getting at that we should have an identification a sense of the terrible tragedy
37:35 -  of the failure of my people to fulfill their own destiny and to be to the world a nation of priests and a light into the world when i preach this i say to the wherever i am you realize how substandard our life is in the world you realize what room we have made for the things that are
37:52 -  profane ugly crippling sexually abased degrading immoral that we're celebrating rap singers whose language is so unbelievably filthy toward women toward mothers and though and they're selling by the millions and the billions middle-class white kids with their things glued to the ears listening
38:11 -  to this filth and celebrating these men who have barren fortunes and a jewish men who are in the business of promoting that quote music the world is degraded this profane is defiled as a sodom and gamora hell for the want of a presence in the earth of that will teach the people the difference
38:33 -  between the sacred and the profane the shemite not not some legalism but something exuding something that only can be communicated in a priestly way that cannot be communicated if you have any kind of sense of superiority or you look with any contempt upon the peoples as is presently true
38:56 -  of most jews my mother used to spit out the word to go him to go him when she lived in west pond beach florida and had to go to the supermarket and some freckled face snot nose kid was at the cash register cracking gum and was harassing my mother because she was aged and slow my she was fumbling
39:17 -  with her purse to get out her pennies in the way everything is conserved and this little girl had no patience for my mother would tell me to go him then the other that has been the historic temper of most jews through the ages how then shall we be to them a nation of priests and a light into the
39:34 -  world except that we have taken on the character of the greatest son of shen Jesus himself unless that that image has been demonstrated to us corporately collectively by that which we have despised called the church so this is what the lord is after its ultimate it's mentioned at the
39:55 -  first and it concludes at the end in this in gathering in the feast of tabernacles when nations shall be called up to acknowledge God and to praise him psalm 46 concludes i will be exalted among the heathen i will be exalted in the earth the lord of host is with us the God of jacob is
40:17 -  our refuge i love that because in the humility of God he's not ashamed to identify himself with the name of the usurper and the schema though he becomes Israel God yet refers himself as jacob's God because he was jacob's God while he was yet usurping and while he was yet the schema and while
40:35 -  he was yet in a relationship with his God as were her fathers before him yet God was his God there was an identification of pathos we need to sense the tragedy the historic tragedy of the failure of Israel to be Israel of the continuation of this people in a jacob japheth mentality
40:56 -  that has cheated the world of the benevolence that would have come as God's intention uh for this nation in a priestly way to teach the world the difference between the sacred and profane the world has lost immeasurably and i have a sneaky suspicion it's only a subjective fancy
41:14 -  that the root of antisemitism is the sense in gentiles that it is intuitive that this people have failed failed us have failed to be to us what somehow was intended and therefore we're suffering in our suffocating gentilism and power and lust and ambition for from that from which we
41:34 -  would have been saved if Israel had only been Israel there's got to be a sense of pathos for the loss for the failure for the tragic collapse of this people for the rejection of their own messiah for their long apostasy and because we have that identification that i lost the word now
41:55 -  pathos pathos so also will be the key of their return we ourselves need to come to them in a priestly way and not in a superior way we need to come under them in their sin and in their shame and scandal not holding ourselves at a distance and condemning them but joining them as Jesus
42:15 -  himself entered the waters of baptism not because he was a sinner but because it befitted all righteousness that he should identify with his own nation in its sin he didn't just stand on on the bank and watch them go down into the muddy water he himself went down when the father saw
42:32 -  that he said this is myself in whom i am well pleased what he has done is what i am i go down i identify and i'm waiting for a church that will also go down and identify with Israel not when it's cute not when it's successful when it is shameful when it's scandalous when it's failed when it's
42:50 -  apostate when it will be even suffering degrading judgment those that will have compassion for her stones and mercy upon her dust will release me to be to them a deliverer for my people my servants will have come of age through their very relatedness with Israel itself in her sin
43:11 -  while they're yet sinners near your brethren so lord we acknowledge that we're so removed from this consciousness let alone this reality and yet you're putting this you're raising something for us a consideration of a new
43:32 -  kind that is an old consideration and that was given at the first in the mystery of God for the prophet noah jay first shall be enlarged but rather than he should be left to his enlargement which shall be destructive equally as it can be blessing i've i called him to dwell in the
43:51 -  tent of shan but if there's no tent if there's no shan that shan to what shall the jays of nations repair but to a sodom and gamora destiny of a spiraling downward and out so lord what a call to the church that you have called out of the nations and people for your name from all nations
44:11 -  but to come into an identity above what is natural above what is ethnic above what is generic and racial and take the character of the very lord himself help us to that lord by pathos by sympathy by identification by seeking out a communion with that people whom we have avoided
44:31 -  and are strange to us and intimidate us and we're afraid to even visit their synagogues and to show up we don't know how to relate and yet we talk about grace where is it when it's needed with a people who look equally upon us with suspicion as christians they're equally as
44:50 -  adverse to us as we have historically been to them something needs to break in and break through lord yes and so we ask mercy grace lord love wisdom understanding desire to fulfill the mystery of the church itself and in that fulfillment to defeat the powers of the air
45:13 -  who say there's no way that gentiles will ever be able to extend themselves for another especially jews because the principle of this life is take care of number one see for your own security see to your own well-being why should you extend yourself for them and put your head in the noose
45:30 -  you're going to go to a concentration camp because you you took some jews in who were wandering and broken in their flight so my God have a bride for the bridegroom have a people for your name have a wife who is a shemite and that's some thinly christianized gentile work the deeps my
45:51 -  God of the whole hebraic faith into us my God not that it should be some cutesy little addendum that we have adopted as jewish roots but come and be our very nature the dwellers in the tent the people who wait the people who live in the rest of God the people who wait for the moving of the spirit
46:11 -  that that goes where it will and you cannot know and the people who do not need to know thank you my God help us with a little help whether we're jews by birth or gentiles to come into that ultimate designation that fulfills the mystery of God that comes through your grace and
46:30 -  the power of the cross the blood and the work of your spirit and word and for that we thank you give you the praise in Jesus name