Resurrection

00:00 -  I've really been looking to the Lord for the perfect choice concluding word, and he's not given it to me with a ringing certitude and kept me suspended in the evening hours as I looked to him for this, but I think this is it. I was just
00:21 -  musing as I was sitting in a chair. My Lord, I thank you Lord for speaking anything through this ignorant man. I just marveled at my ignorance and my ineptitude. You would be stunned if you ever really knew the extent of it. Great
00:41 -  glaring gaps in my theological understanding. I don't think I could put two doctors together. I was a lot more clever as an atheist than I am as a believer. God has controverted the whole character of my life. Would never dream
01:03 -  ever to have entered a high school classroom without being prepared to the teeth. Charts, diagrams, questions, preparations, yea long. A real student, a real scholar, a real studier, a real preparer, and now everything has just
01:19 -  been turned topsy-turvy. Of the moment, in weakness, in ineptness, in ignorance, believe in God. I hope you'll not tire of that, and I hope you not think that this is just my little pat way of beginning a message, but you've got to be persuaded
01:41 -  and convinced about the resurrection of Christ. That we might all come with one voice to say with our brother Paul, for me to live is Christ. And if we can't compliment him one more time and think that it was his Jewish ingenuity, his
02:04 -  natural courage, his endowments of brilliance, or any such thing that accounts for half the New Testament, or the establishing of the church in the ancient world, or countering Jews in the synagogues, we have wholly missed the
02:19 -  glory of God. He was a man who eminently counted all things as dung. He meant all things. He meant every natural endowment. He meant his brilliance, his intelligence, his rabbinical upbringing, his all. I want you to turn with me to John the 11th
02:42 -  chapter, a little episode which I have not begun to understand till now. I think God is reserving some of these episodes till now. John the 11th chapter, reading from the Amplified, now a certain man named Lazarus
03:15 -  was ill. He was of Bethany, the village where Mary and her sister Martha lived. This Mary was the one who anointed the Lord with perfume and wiped his feet with her hair. It was her brother Lazarus who was now sick. So the sister sent to
03:31 -  him saying, Lord, he whom you love so well is sick. When Jesus received the message, he said, this sickness is not to end in death, but on the contrary it is to honor God and to promote his glory that the Son of God may be glorified
03:50 -  through it. Hallelujah. When we sang tonight, to God be the glory, I could barely contain myself. This sickness is not to end in death, but on the contrary it is to honor God and to promote his glory that the Son of God may be
04:09 -  glorified through it. Let's pray together. Precious Holy God, this weakness, this ineptness, and this ignorance, precious Lord, this zero, null, nothing, may it be to promote the glory of God and to honor the Son. May everything, precious God,
04:32 -  that comes out of our mouths and from our hands and bodies and lives be only to promote the honor and the glory of God. Bless, precious God, now the breaking of this word. Be yourself the expositor, precious God, and by your great spirit
04:53 -  teach us the eternal, powerful, central truth of resurrection, that we might live by it to promote the glory of God. Seal now this final speaking according to your own pleasure and will. To God be the glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
05:18 -  Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister in Lazarus. They were his dear friends and he held them in loving esteem. Therefore, even when he heard that Lazarus was sick, he still stayed two days longer in the same place where he was. To steal a phrase
05:37 -  from my wife, how do you like them apples? How many of us facing the same situation, a dearly beloved friend, sick unto death, therefore, because he is dearly beloved, we would remain two days longer where we are. I'll tell you children that
05:59 -  it contradicts every evangelical rule. It staggers the mind even of unbelieving mankind. It has not a shred of anything that resembles normal kindness and humane consideration. It contradicts, it boggles the mind of the world and it
06:18 -  must have astounded also the disciples of Christ. Therefore, he stayed two days longer where he was because he loved him. I wonder how many of us would have been Johnny on the spot. Aren't we always? There's a need, bang, we're there to meet
06:37 -  it, ready to lay on hands, ready to pray, a storm. We will not tolerate sickness for a moment. We know our kingdom rights, right? Right. I told your brother Bob that he doesn't have much tolerance for mystery. He's precious, sound, absolutely
07:02 -  fundamental, and right on, I've never heard a thing from his mouth that could ever be questioned. I approve of this life entirely. In fact, I just might as well interject, so long as I'm on the subject, that God has really done
07:15 -  something in my heart in this short time here on this trip. I really feel an enormous bond, a real welding together. I think it's more than the kind of thing that an occasional speaker feels passing through. You've learned to accept my
07:30 -  peculiarity and I've learned to love and admire, deeply esteem, what God is working in you. And I think that we need each other in the wisdom of God and somehow I think he's going to use us together for purposes that lie ahead.
07:46 -  Hallelujah. But I'm the one who has a real love for mystery. I love the word yummy. This guy's all nuts and bolts. Right on, hallelujah, we need it. But I'll tell you there are times, and there shall be increasingly such times in the days
08:09 -  ahead, when God may surprise us all. He just may pull a little something that is not in the evangelical rule book. It just may seem even to contradict his word and his way, though of course nothing ultimately contradicts it. We're going to
08:29 -  glimpse things, children, that are going to stagger us and I'll pray that in the body God will have sown here and there those who have a reverence and a hush and a certain kind of peculiar affinity for the mysteries of God, the peculiar
08:44 -  unusual unconventional dealings. I think that the greatest glories are going to come from that. We certainly need deeply to be grounded in the basic truths of God, know and appreciate and stand upon our kingdom rights. But I'll tell you
09:00 -  that there shall be certain sicknesses coming that are not to be prayed for, that shall promote the glory of God. I hope Bob won't be around when they surface. He would have been the first to rush and lay on hands and demand. Children,
09:23 -  you know what we're describing here? In this high priest, above all high priests, what perfect and impeccable obedience to God the Father means. How would you like to know that within a stone's throw, within reach, is one lying
09:41 -  on a sickbed saturating the sheets with his sweat, his moans and groans permeate the air. His face has a pallor nigh unto death. To be sick is a wretched condition. It is utterly and totally discouraging. It's a form of very death itself and it
10:05 -  is carried to its ultimate logic. It is death. We know what it means to have a sick headache. You're dying. What would you say then if you knew that there was a friend languishing in this condition and it was within access and reach,
10:21 -  barely across the river, and you did not go to help him? You remained yet two days longer where you are and you allowed your friend to languish unto death. Some friend, huh? The scripture doesn't say it but I have a little sneaky suspicion of
10:45 -  the kinds of thoughts that must have coursed through the minds of Jesus's disciples. Maybe there were a few murmurs and whispers and a few looks one to the other that they could read. Hey, if the master goes now to Bethany, he's had it.
11:01 -  Man, he came within inches of getting stoned the last time and if he goes this time, he's a dead duck. No wonder he's remaining two days longer where he is. Chicken. Moral coward preserving his own skin and allowing his friend to die. You
11:22 -  know what priesthood means, children, in the last analysis? Impeccable and unswerving obedience to God. Not only when the world shall not understand you but even God's people. And not God's people only, general rank and file, but
11:44 -  the most intimate, close, trusted, dear, and esteemed friends. Except there's a man who'll stand at the Lord's side and put his sword on his side and go in and out of the camp and slay everyone, his neighbor and his friend and his brother.
12:04 -  He's not yet God's consecrated priest. Jesus had to run the risk of wholly offending, if not alienating, men in whom he had invested three and a half years of his life. They may have been totally disappointed in what seemed to them the
12:24 -  moral cowardice of their master, but he didn't offer them a shred of explanation. And he didn't give it to Lazarus either. I can just see when Mary and Martha came into that sick room to look at this man writhing in his discomfort, hot and cold
12:44 -  spells, the stamp of death already on his person, looking up at them with expectancy, have the master come? Making their little excuses and under their breath and snorting and trying somehow to pacify him. Well, we've told them that the
13:00 -  message has gone out. He'll be here momentarily, hanging on to a thin thread of hope. As death approaches, expiring, gasping, sucking for air, and the master never arrived. Jesus allowed him to die without an explanation. He was a friend
13:27 -  of Lazarus, and he loved him dearly. You know what I suspect? That it worked both ways, and Lazarus was a friend of Jesus, and he loved him dearly. And what does the scripture say about a friend? Willing, what love is, willing to lay down your
13:44 -  life for a friend? I wonder if Lazarus died in a terribly agitated condition. I wonder if he groaned and moaned and excruciated and beat his chest and cried out to a God who had forsaken him and a friend who had forsaken him. I wonder if
13:59 -  he died at rest. Interesting, when they finally left and went in the direction of destiny after that interval in the perfect timing of God. Perfect. I wonder what they, if they understood what Jesus meant when he said in the 11th verse, our
14:24 -  friend Lazarus is at rest and sleeping, but I am going there that I may awaken him out of his sleep. I guess a friend of Jesus in the last analysis is one who can die without explanation. I'll tell you that God is doing less and less
14:45 -  explaining for me more and more inexplicable dealings of God. Half the time this afternoon spent with Bob was the discussion of why we are in Minnesota, what we're doing there. It seems illogical and unrelated to my
15:01 -  calling, and try as I could, I don't know how well I communicated what I thought God's purposes were. And I'll tell you it's only recently that I have first begun to glimmer what are the purposes of God in our being there, and it is now
15:16 -  almost a year. My wife has bucked like a bronco leaving her 17-room house in New Jersey, her bric-a-brac, all the things that she loves and adhere to her feminine heart. Those in the ministries to the Jews have given us
15:33 -  dirty looks and there's a little underground murmur going around that Katz has copped out and has left from where the action is and playing Boy Scout games in the sticks. And God has not given me explanation. And I'll tell
15:52 -  you what children, I'm expecting in the end times that we should not expect explanation. I can't think of a condition more devoutly to be desired so to love Jesus, so to be his friend, that we could languish and be sick and be
16:11 -  tried unto death without an explanation and still be at rest sleeping. Jesus said, for your sake I'm glad that I was not there in the 15th verse, it will help you to believe, to trust, and rely on me, however let us go to him. And as
16:35 -  they came in the 21st verse Martha said to Jesus as he approached the town of Bethany she came running, if you had been here my brother would not have died and even now I know that whatever you ask from God he will grant it to you. And
16:47 -  Jesus said, your brother shall rise again. And Martha replied, I know that he will rise again at the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her, I am myself the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes and adheres to a trust and
17:02 -  relies on me, although he may die yet shall he live. And whoever continues to live and believes, has faith in and cleaves to and relies on me, shall never actually die at all. Do you believe this? It might be a question that the same
17:19 -  Lord should also address to us because so many of us are like Martha's. We don't even wait for him to come, we're running to meet him halfway. And the first words out of a mouth, although it seems a question, is really an accusation and an
17:35 -  insinuation. If you had been here, my brother would not have died. Don't you believe in the resurrection? Sure I believe in the resurrection on the last day, pert, right, correct, full of right on doctrine. But I tell you children that
17:54 -  there's believing and believing. There may come a moment in our lives that parallels something that saints like Richard Vermbrandt and others have experienced. Prison camps, solitary confinement, torture, psychological and
18:10 -  physical, where a man who was once a theologian and had written books on doctrine, in the midst of his duress, could not remember a single doctrine, couldn't quote a single scripture, forgot every hymn that had ever been sung, and
18:26 -  clung to his sanity by the thinnest strand of connection to the living God. You believe that men could be brought to such a condition? I can't think of anything that has been made a greater mock than faith itself. Every great word
18:43 -  has suffered abuse in our generation, none more so than faith itself. Can you think of a more cruel phrase than the three great faiths? What a bunch of hokum. What a bunch of nonsense. Three great religious establishments may be,
19:00 -  but it hasn't got a cotton-picking thing to do with real faith. And even the word in the minds of most believers has got to do with giving assent to certain doctrines. But is there a faith that will enable us never to die? You read the
19:19 -  conclusion of every gospel in the scriptures and you'll see the staggering condition of the unbelief of the disciples themselves about the resurrection of Christ. They locked themselves in behind closed doors. They
19:32 -  were affrighted and they were terrified when they saw him and thought that they had seen a ghost. And they would not believe the women who had seen him when he arose from the dead and thought that they were hearing old wives' tales. And it
19:47 -  says in another gospel that when he came they saw him, but they believed yet not unto joy. There's believing and believing. Our belief has never really been tested in the resurrection. We have given assent to it as have thousands and
20:05 -  millions before us, generation for generation. But I'll tell you that our generation shall be sorely tested on this point. Do you believe this, that if you cleave to me and trust you shall never see death? I don't know about you
20:22 -  children, but I have no intention of ever seeing death. I'm not making any provision for it. I'm not expecting to grow old gracefully. I'm not expecting to diminish in activity. I'll tell you what, 12 years ago life came into me that is
20:37 -  both abundant and eternal. I am never expecting to see death or to make any provision for it. He's the life of my life and what could be more pitiable than us who believe and cast ourselves upon him believing that in moments,
20:56 -  excruciating and fearful moments, beyond our wisdom, beyond our strength, beyond our expertise, beyond our knowledge, beyond our experience, that if he not be the resurrected Christ in whom is the fullness of God, the treasures of wisdom
21:11 -  and knowledge, we perish. Would you believe that? Yes, I believe that there's a resurrection on the last day. You want to know something children, there's not another chapter in the Bible that contains the verse, Jesus wept. Aside from
21:30 -  the description of Gethsemane, there's not another place in the New Testament accounts that described the anguish of spirit of Jesus as in this chapter. Look at the 33rd verse, when Jesus saw her sobbing and the Jews who came with her
21:44 -  also sobbing, he was deeply moved and spirit and troubled, he chafed in spirit and sighed and was disturbed. And he said, where have you laid him? And they said to him, Lord, come and see. Jesus wept. And the Jews said, see how tenderly he
21:59 -  loved him. But some of them said, could not he who opened the blind man's eyes have prevented this man from dying? And Jesus again, sighing repeatedly and deeply disquieted, approached the tomb. I have never before understood this, and I
22:15 -  think I'm only at the beginning of understandings. And I want to study and understand and have revelation of any scriptures that have to do with the Lord of Glory, the Holy One of Israel, being deeply disquieted and being chafed in
22:30 -  his spirit and weeping. I'll tell you children, it breaks my heart. I can't stand to consider it. And if there's anything that's keeping me straight and on the straight and narrow with the Lord, it's the fear that I might ever offend his
22:46 -  precious heart and cause him sorrow. And there's a fellowship on earth so deeply impressed with this sense. It's the same one that I described the other day, the Sisters of Mary in Germany. And you know they have a peculiar notion, that Jesus
23:02 -  sorrows still. They have a peculiar notion, that he grieves still. They have a foolish understanding, that he weeps still. That when he looks down upon his people and he's in the midst of them, he is still chafed in the spirit and
23:17 -  disquieted. And I think it is for essentially the same reasons. People were having a good old winging of a slobbery mash over the death, the premature death of a young man. A whole crowd of Jews were there sobbing and watching Mary and
23:33 -  Martha and following them to the tomb for the great finale. There's something about human nature that loves a good cry. There was no TV in those days, no amusement. And what could be richer and schmaltzier than coming to
23:49 -  the funeral of a young man taken prematurely? Oh, they were waiting for the emotional climax. Maybe the two sisters would break down and sob and cast themselves upon the stone that covered his tomb. They were making a
24:03 -  whole lament about death. Couldn't this man who opened the blind man's eyes have prevented this one from dying? Jesus wept. Let me ask you, what in heaven's name is so calamitous about dying anyway? What's the whole schmear about?
24:21 -  What's all this wailing and bemoaning and and beating one's breast and clutching hair? If you had been here, Lord, if you had been here. But let me ask you a question. If he's Lord, what cotton picking difference does it make where he
24:36 -  was? No wonder Jesus said about a Gentile man who said, Master, my servant lies sick, but I'm not worthy that you should come under my roof. Merely speak the word and it shall be sufficient. And Jesus turned to the Jews who were about him
24:55 -  and said, I have not found so great a faith in all Israel. How many of you have felt abandoned, sick unto death? Where is the Lord? The clock is ticking away and he doesn't come like Sir Galahad to your rescue. He allows you to die. But this is
25:19 -  for the glory of God. Would you do it? Would you trust him? Would you rest and be at peace and sleep? Or would you rather murmur and say, if you had been here, how come you allowed me to suffer this with my wife? How come this
25:40 -  breakdown in our marriage? How come this excruciating condition? How come this thing in my body? How come this inexplicable sickness? How come the loss of my fortune? How come you made me look like an ass and a failure and a nincompoop
25:53 -  before your people and I choked and stammered and had not a clever word to speak and there was no anointing and no unction? How come when we went to City College in New York and 85% Jewish in that first gospel outreach, which you
26:05 -  yourself had called us to months before when the Spirit of God came down and we wept like babies when we met with the intervarsity kids and knew that God was calling us to the first penetration of the Jewish mainstream? How come when that
26:17 -  day came after months of prayer and fasting and every sacrifice and every preparation, when we came into that crowded room that crackled with resentment and bitterness and anger by Jews with their yarmulkes on their heads
26:31 -  and their Van Dyke beards looking and shooting daggers at us with their eyes? How come when you allowed us to come with expectancy that you were to speak with unction and power as you did at Harvard University and stunned men
26:43 -  who came to jeer and make sport and left them silent in their seats? How come you didn't do it before your own Jewish kinsman to whom you had called it? How come when we opened our mouths the most lame, inept, pathetic dribble fell to the
26:56 -  ground? How come there wasn't a smidgen of unction on it whatsoever? How come I knew I was a dead duck from the moment I opened my mouth and that there was no remedy for it and I had only to press on and persevere and suffer it? How come? If
27:09 -  you had been here, how come you allowed me to experience that unspeakable mortification and shame when the moment that I finished my pathetic and lame remarks that Jewish rabbi got up and tore me to shreds and made me to look
27:25 -  like an ignoramus and a jackass coming with a King James Bible, a Gentile Bible, and try to persuade Jews of medieval myths and old wives tales that have cost them in bloodshed and smashed children's skulls in European ghettos for
27:38 -  all these centuries? How come? How come when that rabbi stormed out and slammed the door in the room, shook with the power of that man's personality, that you allowed other Jews to get up and continue where he left off, that raked the flesh
27:51 -  right off my bones? How come? And how come, Lord, that when it was all over, the most agonizing afternoon of my life, suffering the abuse of my own people who told me that I was worse than Hitler because Hitler only wanted their bodies and I
28:10 -  was seeking to steal their souls, who looked at me with venomous anger and bitterness and hatred in their faces? How come, Lord, that the worst and the most cruel blow of all, the most cutting and killing, was to have to look in the
28:25 -  faces of my Christian colleagues and see their terrible disappointment? How come, Lord, that I could read so clearly what their faces said? Cats, we thought you were an anointed vessel. Cats, we had heard about Harvard. We thought you were
28:41 -  going to really speak to this people, your own people. What's the matter, buddy? Don't you know how to pray? Got secret sin in your life? Couldn't you fast? How come, Lord, I had to see their faces and feel the spikes driven into my spiritual
28:59 -  life and I could not answer them a word and had no explanation? How come, Lord, you let me lay like a dead dog for three weeks in my house in New York and not able to lift my head and lick my wounds like a cur? How come that you didn't
29:16 -  speak from heaven and say, this is my beloved son and whom I'm well pleased? How come you didn't give me a little pat on the head and say, well done, faithful servant. If you had been there, Lord, I would not have died. And yet I know now,
29:34 -  children, he was there all the while. Always is. He'll never leave us, no forsaker. Our dear brother got up earlier this morning after the morning session and gave you a word of explanation lest you be disquieted and chafed in your spirit.
29:51 -  And it was a good word, solid, needful. What was the issue I've forgotten now? Remind me, what was it? Mental illness and we have victory in Jesus and we have a sound mind, right? That's true. Hard to
30:11 -  believe that God would ever allow vexation in the life of a believer. This quiet, chafed spirit to such a degree that a woman would almost seem to have lost her marbles and suffer the unspeakable reproach of having to be
30:27 -  brought to the office of a worldly psychiatrist. And there while the spittle was forming at the corners of her mouth and she could not even give a coherent statement, something broke and the whole thing lifted. And she was perfectly sound
30:47 -  and witness to that doctor, the marvel that was performed right before his eyes. How come, Lord? How come, Lord, that night in Monroe, Louisiana, the last of three nights of meetings, those fierce speakings in which I prophesied that the
31:07 -  audience would decline night by night and grow smaller and that was fulfilled. How come that last day, Lord, I started to feel sad in the afternoon and as it came later toward the evening I was sadder and sadder still? How come I chafed
31:22 -  in my spirit and was disquieted and I had no explanation? How come that when I came to the meeting and and the worship was already taking place and people were happy and having a great time in the Lord, how come that I was going down, down,
31:35 -  rather than up, up, up? How come that when I came to the platform to begin to speak that I was practically doubled over as if I had been punched in the solar plexus and gasping and sucking for air, choked and spluttering, and how come that man
31:49 -  leaped up and gave that prophetic word that you had something to speak that night that was not pleasant to hear, let alone to deliver, and that that word just crushed me and I just poured out like water, wondering if I would ever collect
32:04 -  myself together sufficiently to speak? And how come, Lord, that when that heavy word finally went forth and the invitation came, that that dwindling audience lifted up quietly their little theater seats and went down on their
32:18 -  knees on the concrete floor in a commitment unto death, that the sadness broke and lifted and there was joy unspeakable? How come? This sickness is not unto death, this is to promote the glory of God. And we saw just how much
32:39 -  sacrifice earlier today, how much shedding of blood, how much copious flowing of life, how much hack to pieces sacrifice, how much blood and gore stupefied priests were required, how much excruciating waiting before the glory of
32:57 -  God fell. Children, you want to see the glory of God at the end of the age? It's going to require inexplicable things from us in which he will not explain, in which you're going to feel abandoned of the Lord. If you had been here, I pray in
33:13 -  that day will not be like Mary and Martha calling him Lord and not understanding the fullness of that word, uprating him and reprimanding him for failing to be there because he did not act in accordance with our anticipation
33:26 -  and left us to inexplicably suffer and die. In the 40th verse Jesus said to her, did I not tell you and promise you that if you will relieve and rely on me you should see the glory of God? In the previous verse he said, take away the
33:46 -  stone. And Martha the sister of the dead man exclaimed, but Lord by this time he is decaying and throws off an offensive odor for he has been dead four days. He stinketh, I think it says in King James. Someone who knows something about
34:02 -  physiology said to me that up to three days by the use of chemicals and expertise a body can be essentially preserved, but on the fourth day no matter what the chemicals, no matter what the technique, the processes of
34:17 -  dissolution and corruption set in. The body becomes absolutely corrupt and is on the verge of dissolving. He stinketh. You know what children, the father only required from Jesus three days in death, but somehow something was required from
34:35 -  Lazarus that was extra. And I looked up what the name Lazarus means, you'll never believe it in Hebrew. It means helpless. You very rarely find a Jewish man like that. We're a bunch of big knockers I'll have you know. We've been around and
34:54 -  we've got the university degrees and diplomas and certificates from B'nai Brith to prove it. You'll very rarely ever find a helpless Jew. And you know what I think? It was a man willing to be helpless in sickness unto death to
35:11 -  promote the glory of God. You know what I sang to Lord as I sat there tonight? I said for crying out loud something like that. Couldn't I just finish these few days with a little vim and vigor? Couldn't I just give it a little
35:26 -  razzmatazz and just delight the cockles of Bob's heart? End on a positive note. Why must I feel so weary and enervated and emptied and blah and uninspired and inept and stupid and ignorant? Because I've called you to be helpless. It
35:52 -  promotes my glory. That's why. But Lord I was a big knocker, I was an atheist. Man I used to be slapped on the back and chaired through the marketplace. I had it all together. That was the way of the world. This is the way of the kingdom. By
36:15 -  now he stinketh. Can you see Lazarus in that tomb? He died without explanation and he went into death with consciousness still intact. But he was a well-informed Jewish man and he knew that three is the length of time before
36:33 -  resurrection. And I can just see him on that last day watching the clock, so to speak. Tick-tock tick-tock. Two days and 11 hours and 50 minutes in the tomb. Ten more minutes to go and surely he shall hear that voice. Deep calling unto deep
36:53 -  and he shall be released from the bonds of death. Nine minutes to go. Eight minutes to go. Seven minutes to go. Just like a guy I described to you early today, waiting to be called on to speak, clutching his Bible in his hands, hoping
37:07 -  by osmosis something would come through the covers. Listen children, every act of true service unto God is unto death or it's not true service. Real prayer is dying. Fasting is dying. Real service is dying. Real witness is dying. Are you
37:29 -  talking about the cessation of consciousness? No. I'm talking about the suffering. I'm talking about the excruciatingness of it. I'm talking about languishing. Tick-tock tick-tock. Waiting for life to come and it does not.
37:49 -  One minute to go. Clutching to the last shred of faith. 60 seconds. 45, 30, 15, 10, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0. Doomed to eternal confinement in the tomb until that day. God in his wisdom allowed Lazarus to languish beyond three days, more than was
38:21 -  required of the Lord himself. You know what somebody said to Richard Vombrond in one of those communist prison camps? When he was told to be patient and to endure the sufferings, he said I have suffered more than Christ. Jesus never
38:35 -  had to make communion with urine and human excretion. Dear children, are you listening to the Spirit of God? I tell you that there shall be some among us in this room that shall face a day when we shall think ourselves so
38:57 -  abandoned of God. There shall not be a smidgen of conscious presence. There shall not be an encouragement of any kind. Things shall be required of us without explanation. We shall be to the end of the limits of our faith, our
39:13 -  experience, our knowledge to promote the glory of God. And I'll tell you that I have a suspicion that in that day God is going to remind you of this foolish message. This is an end-time message which I have never understood before
39:33 -  this. So they took away this stone and Jesus lifted up his eyes and said Father I thank you that you have heard me. Yes I know you always hear and listen to me but I have said this on account of and for the benefit of the people standing
39:49 -  around so that they may believe you did send me, that you may believe me you have a messenger and when he had said this he cried with a loud voice Lazarus come forth and out walked the man who had been dead his hands and feet wrapped in
40:05 -  burial clothes and with a burial napkin bound around his face and Jesus said to them free him of the burial wrappings and let him go. Upon seeing what Jesus had done many of the Jews who had come with Mary believed on him they trusted
40:22 -  in him and adhered to him and relied on him. I'll bet more Jews were saved that day by the coming forth of a stinking corpse than have been saved before or since by all the ingenuity of Jewish missions, methodologies, techniques,
40:42 -  literature distribution, rallies and every such thing. He didn't speak a word he didn't have a message he didn't witness verbally he didn't proclaim anything he simply when deep cold unto deep out of the bowels of death came
41:01 -  forth. He was willing to be buried with his hands and his feet and his face wrapped in burial cloths. I can't stand to be confined I'm claustrophobic I can't stand congestion. How would you like to be put in a constricted place? How'd you
41:23 -  like your life to be brought into a winter of decline and contraction? I had one of the greatest secretaries going she still is those who know her will acknowledge she was a superb charismatic saint. The ultimate in secretaries
41:42 -  efficient mature deep tremendous prayer warrior she was heads and shoulders just about over every saint you would know but she told me one day art the Lord is calling me to leave you. You're the heart of the operation everything revolves
42:03 -  around you that office the concern for the family your maturity your strength your support your encouragement. The Lord called her to Germany to a German pietistic fellowship that you can't believe. Talk about discipline
42:24 -  she's the one who gets up now 530 in the morning and works all the day long in the laundry. A girl with exquisite gifts. Man if they knew what they had there they would get her out of that sweatshop at once and put her behind a typewriter
42:38 -  or have to write music or play the guitar or sing or teach every day in the laundry. She can't even converse because she's living in a land whose language she does not know. She doesn't have a free moment day and night she's
42:54 -  under supervision or in relationship with other women and she's a former Catholic and she can't stand liturgical religion. She loved that wonderful freedom of the charismatic worship but three times a day at the prescribed hour
43:08 -  they have certain kinds of prescribed Lutheran type worship. It's so Catholic it makes her sick. God has cut her off at the pass and there's no place to run. She said art I can't even get a chocolate bar. Talk about the ultimate
43:29 -  indignity. She's a girl who loved to go out for a Chinese meal or a hamburger even. You know when the pressure gets tough and the tensions you can always go out on the town for something. Holy constricted she's in the crunch of God
43:47 -  and when I saw her last she was a glory. You know what I suspect children? God is going to be cutting many of us off at the pass. You know she said art for the first time I realized that that chocolate bar and the opportunity to go
44:03 -  out for a Chinese meal when I wanted to was a form of escapism and now that my life has been contracted and bound in with him she said I'm rioting and screaming. It's like coming off of drugs. It's like withdrawal. I did not
44:24 -  realize to what extent I was attuned to the world and its blandishments and pleasures. She didn't have to go there she had a choice to go also to the Sisters of Mary and she loved it much better. I told you how beautiful their
44:41 -  worship is and those women are of a much different kind much more free much more spontaneous much more evangelical. The community where she is now is contemplative. She had a choice of two things and she chose the thing least
44:56 -  pleasing to her own flesh and felt that that was God's will for her and she's been in a virtual tomb all these months. How many of us would be willing so to do? By now he stinketh it's the fourth day. Hey Kat shouldn't you be in New York
45:18 -  where the action is? I'll tell you children there's a reproach even in the nostrils of Christians where if you'll submit yourself to the contraction of God willing to be closed in with him you'll stink in the nostrils of many. How
45:35 -  would you like to be bound up in your hands and your feet and your head? Can't go where you want? Can't do what you want? Can't speak what you want? Waiting incessantly patiently for the calling forth of that one who is the Lord of all
45:51 -  that that would promote his glory and when that call came and he was loosed many Jews believed on him. They saw the glory of God and I think that this is a key to the revelation of God's end-time glory through saints who will be willing
46:14 -  to have their lives contracted, crunched, hemmed in, cut off, silenced, bound and tuned. It's not for everybody it's for those willing to be helpless. How many of us would be willing to be Lazarus's helpless? Friends of the Lord deserted in
46:42 -  sickness and abandoned in death bound up inactive unused and stinking. I couldn't think of a worse horror for this fellowship than what I'm now describing. Could you? Whoo! Man you guys would die if the Lord all of a sudden called
47:03 -  Sinus. If he gave you the spurt of a season of life and you enjoyed it and saw fruitfulness all of a sudden the same God would bring that precious thing into contraction and death. Are you willing to bring your defects and your vices and
47:22 -  your bad moods and your lusts into the grave? How would you like to bring the thing which God himself has given into death? That death should no longer have any dominion over it. Children I'm speaking like a fool. I hardly understand
47:39 -  myself what I'm saying. I think it has a prophetic ring to it. We're going to see it increasingly. God has given us a season to exhibit ourselves and to sport ourselves and to move by his life and to do for him and to see fruitfulness but I
47:56 -  think that before the end comes to promote his ultimate glory he's going to call us to a discipline and to an obedience into a priesthood of impeccable obedience staying two days longer where we are. That when he shall
48:12 -  call us forth though we are a stink to many there shall be a glory. What's life or death anyway? It wasn't too long ago I was invited to a funeral hall. I'd never been to one. We Jews closed the casket but somehow Christians quote-unquote
48:34 -  leave it open and people come and bask and look at it and I sat by the front seat with an unusual thing for me and I watched the stream of people coming up guts hanging over the belts burping their way right from the supper table to
48:46 -  the funeral parlor to the mortuary excuse me. You notice how we've coined little euphemisms to take this thing out of death? Morticians, mortuaries used to be undertaker and I listened to the little pleasantries that people would
49:03 -  say you know what I thought about? I was looking at a woman immobile in death not so much the flutter as an eyelash a very precious thing taken prematurely in her 30s at the height of her life and the height of her glory brilliant believer
49:21 -  everyone loved her her husband was a lout an unbelieving clod who could have such a wife as this and yet not believe and the Lord inexplicably took her life you know those believers thought she was going to be resurrected and they even had
49:35 -  a suspicion that I was going to be the one that God was going to use. I looked at the immobility of that woman isn't that what death is? Utter stillness, utter silence not a move not a flutter of an eyelash not an emanation of breath and as I saw
49:55 -  these big adults bending over and making their obsequious remarks to the to the husband of the deceased you know what I thought to myself? Hey just who's more dead or alive anyway? What is their life? How many meals have they ingested? Ten
50:11 -  thousand, twenty thousand, fifty thousand in thirty, forty, fifty years. How many times have their clothes needed to be washed? How many times in and out of the dry cleaners? How much space have they occupied, air consumed, water drunk? What
50:25 -  is life anyway I thought? Certainly it's not in this physical, biological, physiological activity coming and going, doing and spending, having and getting. Certainly it's not the noise, the commotion, the clutter, the debris that
50:38 -  we've accumulated after so many years. Life is this only children, are you ready? That which promotes the glory of God. That's it. It has not to do with waving our arms or leaping or jumping or shouting or filling the air or breaking
50:59 -  the silence except that that sound, that jump, that leap, that activity promotes the glory of God. And if it shall please God that his glory shall be promoted through your silence, through your immobility, through your helplessness, will
51:22 -  you allow it? There's a precious thing here. I'm not sure that I have grasped it but I'm drooling over it because it seems to me, it seems to me so deeply to be the way of very God himself. The father did not think it too much to
51:44 -  require of his son that that which was born sinless and pure be brought into death that there might be a greater revelation. How willing would we be to take that which was born from above in us and bring it into contraction and
52:04 -  death to promote the glory of God? The 12th chapter of the 11th verse it says because in the count of him, Lazarus, many of the Jews were going away were withdrawing and leaving the Judeans and believing in and adhering to Jesus. Many
52:22 -  were saved out of death by one who submitted to it. It's death which worketh in us and life in them. What happened not when that you suffered that excruciating agony those rabbis cut you to pieces and you lay like a curve for
52:41 -  three weeks licking your wounds and God did not explain anything? Well I had a phone call. Did I tell you about this last time? Three weeks later I had a phone call with a woman whose voice was so thin I had a strain to hear it. Mr. Kat she said
52:55 -  I'm a Jewish woman who has read your book and I have certain questions might I come over and speak with you? I said dear lady I'm not able to help anyone. I'm helpless is what I was saying but I said if you have no other alternative and you
53:11 -  want to you can come and so she came. You never saw a more pathetic wreck in your life so emaciated so thin she was almost transparent her veins were popping out everywhere deep dark rings under eyes she had been battered from pillar to
53:28 -  post by life. Nervous wreck compulsive chain smoker sitting on my couch and snubbing out one cigarette after another asking questions until she snubbed out the last cigarette and the last question was what must I do to be saved?
53:47 -  And I told her she bowed her frail little head and clutched me by the hand with a bony hand word for word like a child followed me in a prayer that brought her from death unto life. You ought to see that woman today talk about
54:04 -  evangelists and missionary. Man she's up and down the stairs at an apartment house in Queens literature New Testament then Israel's she's a little dynamo in a Jewish neighborhood for God saved out of death. I remember I walked
54:20 -  it to the door that night and I took her coat off out of the closet and I was putting it over her frail shoulders and I said by the way I said how is it that you came to me? Where did you get the book? How did you have these questions? Oh
54:32 -  she said three weeks ago my son who was at City College came home with your book he insisted that I read it because he said that a man came to the school today and it was like unlike anything he had ever seen he said he was so
54:47 -  enormously impressed because that man just simply stood up softly spoke his convictions and when he was finished he was mercilessly attacked and torn to shreds and he said he had never seen such a demonstration where the man did
55:01 -  not answer back his accusers a word. I'll tell your children there'll be days when the glory will be so great in response for our obedience we'll not be able to contain it. We'll see whole
55:19 -  fulls of men who have come to jeer and to make sport as I've seen it in Harvard radicals filthy orgyists insurrectionists Satanists coming to see the freak who believes in Jesus and is Jewish and you'll come exhausted you'll lay down
55:35 -  your crumpled corduroy jacket and you'll open your mouth believing that this is unto death and there'll be an eruption of life out of your mouth that shall stun and mesmerize and fix men in their seats with such centrifugal force you
55:50 -  would think that they were being pulled off a runway by a powerful jet and when you hear the words pouring out of your mouth the most profound and biting and incisive commentary on the human condition that you've ever heard there
56:04 -  be no question in you what the source of it is and when you're finished you'll see men stunned silent and not one single man who has that nerve to ask a question or to be a wise aleck or to jeer because they know for a fact that
56:20 -  God has spoken and you'll say simply Jesus said that my sheep will hear my voice and I invite as many of you who have heard it out of this Brooklyn accent to bow your head and follow me in prayer and you'll expect maybe two
56:35 -  three or five and you'll be amazed at the chorus of voices that you'll hear it sounds more like hundreds and indeed you'll lift your head when the prayer is finished and the room will be filled with the manifest presence in the glory
56:47 -  of God and you'll look as you'll scan that room you'll see men weeping trembling shaking stunned clutching their mouths holding their chest as the spirit of God has just come into them and you'll not know what to do you've not
56:58 -  been prepared for such an eventuality and you'll just say simply let's praise the God who has saved us and you'll see the same men who came to give you this standing with their hands over their heads weeping and praising God at Harvard
57:10 -  University the citadel of witchcraft and Satanism it'll be a glory but to the other days when you'll not see it are you willing to suffer the one as well as to enjoy the other are you willing to be dense helpless hid with Christ in God
57:34 -  until his life be revealed Lazarus come forth will you wait till then even if it's four days and you stink with reproach will you wait till then though you've been bound in your mouth and you're a terrific speaker bound in your
57:53 -  hands and your feet and you want to go go go wait for the perfect moment of God that many might believe on him when they see his glory I'm gonna give you an invitation children I've not given one haven't got your seat belts on oh you
58:13 -  precious children I'll tell you this without flattering you you're probably one of the most impressive audiences of young believers upon whom I have ever laid eyes I have not heard such a torrent of choice and holy utterances
58:29 -  and prophecy as I've heard come out of your mouths in these days the quality of worship the look in your faces your evident integrity and hunger for God and willingness to serve is apparent you've got precious things in you that have
58:43 -  come from above holy sinless and pure how many of you would like to take it and submit it without explanation unto death if he shall require that it might reveal his glory I'm gonna give you an invitation children this is not for
59:02 -  everyone this is not for everyone if I suspect anything I think that this has got to do with the ultimate end time greatest revelation of the glory of God