Shem and Japheth

00:00 -  Well, I'm thankful for this final opportunity to take a shot at something that the Lord gave me from the beginning of the visit here that I didn't know I'd have the opportunity to express.
00:13 -  So it'll be a little first and I have an experimental flavor to it, but it's in keeping with the burden that's been on my heart in all the previous speakings, maybe another way to see it.
00:26 -  And I invite you just to turn with me to Genesis chapter 9 and the little cryptic verse sounded through Noah, who is also a prophet. I suppose you have noticed how a little note sounded at the beginning has a later reverberation
00:46 -  and final consequence of a symphonic kind that concludes everything. As for example, Deuteronomy 32 verse 8, that when God established the number of the nations, He did so in keeping with the number of the sons of Israel.
01:08 -  All of a sudden that little verse is inserted and there's no further comment and the Lord goes on to something else. But at the end of the age, there is the fulfillment of that which is struck as a minor note sandwiched
01:22 -  into Deuteronomy chapter 32. And here also in Genesis, after the event of Noah's uncovering and drunkenness by one of his three sons, and he revives and awakes from his wine in verse 24, and knew what his
01:43 -  youngest son had done to him, he said, cursed be Canaan, lowest of slaves shall he be to his brothers. He also said, blessed by the Lord my God be Shem, and let Canaan be his slave.
01:58 -  May God make space or enlarge Japheth, and let him dwell in the tents of Shem, and let Canaan be his slave. Amen.
02:11 -  Well, the Lord gave me a little glimpse of what He may have in mind about Japheth dwelling in the tents of Shem. Japheth is that designation for the European peoples, Western nations, and they have been
02:30 -  enlarged in technology and in business, commerce, trade, culture. Everything that has to do that is expansive with human energy and ability is characteristic of Japheth nations.
02:48 -  But left to itself, those very enlargements kindle a kind of aggressive arrogance that we have seen expressed in history, and God's compensation and God's wisdom to temper the enlargement given to Japheth in his wonderful grace and designation is that Japheth should
03:11 -  come and dwell in the tents of Shem. Shem is the Semites, Shem is Abraham, Shem are the people Israel, the Jews, Shem is ultimately the church that takes on that Hebraic and Davidic character that is in keeping with
03:32 -  the Shemite personality as distinguished from Japheth. It's a good question to ask of ourselves this morning whether we more resemble Japheth or Shem as Christians, do we take on the flavoring and coloration and disposition of
03:51 -  Japheth in our energy and our character and our disposition and our conduct and our temperament and our mood and our spirit, even as Christians, or have we taken on the character and disposition of that which is intrinsic to and characteristic of Shem?
04:09 -  Shem is a dweller in the tent, Japheth is enlarged, man of capability and energy and dynamic, and we know what we have seen in history as the result of that dynamic in World Wars I and II, and the end is not yet.
04:27 -  But the ultimate end in the wisdom of God is that Japheth must dwell in the tent of that this will take the audacity and the arrogance out of Japheth, it will temper him. It's a necessary compensation that he must obtain in one place only, in the place that
04:49 -  God has designated in the tent of Shem. Shem is altogether different, it's the difference between Esau and Jacob. Isaac was a dweller in tents, it suggests meditation, contemplation, devotion, those
05:11 -  spiritual qualities that save the world from the onslaught of men in their own aggressive character and conduct. This is the essence of what God is in himself, is hinted at and indicated in Shem.
05:31 -  The only problem is Japheth in order to enter that tent needs to bow, and this was vividly struck home with me in a recent trip to Russia, a young hotshot, now 31, who began a Bible study in his living room at the age of 19, and within a few years he had a congregation
05:54 -  of a thousand, and probably one of the most significant evangelical and charismatic works in the entire nation. But he struts, there's a kind of a peacock aspect to his personality.
06:10 -  He's dynamic and gifted, he's a Japheth of Japheths, and I represented Shem, and there was a distance between us, a kind of unspoken animosity. He's treated me a bit scornfully, and when he would ask questions in the opportunity
06:31 -  of my sharing, it was tinged with a little caustic note, a little wise aleckiness, and I said to him at one point, you know what you need, brother? You need to bow and to enter the tent of Shem.
06:44 -  You need to have your personality subdued and tempered in the one means by which God alone has provided it and which I represent. Your relationship with me, your attitude toward me, your willingness to condescend in a kind
07:01 -  of humility toward me as an older brother and as a Jewish brother is the very thing that you desperately need. But he was unwilling to avail himself.
07:13 -  You could not bow to enter. So though God made space for Japheth and enlarged him, his ultimate saving grace is to dwell in the tent of another.
07:30 -  And there's no entering that tent without the humility of bowing to enter. And so we see this theme reiterated and repeated throughout Scripture, and it ends with the nations of the world coming to Jerusalem, which is to bow and to acknowledge that God
07:49 -  has exalted this Semitic nation above all nations, not in any lauding over the nations, or it would not be in true Semitic character. Japheth lauds it over, but a Semite has the character as was depicted by the son Jesus
08:08 -  who is the essential Semite, and that is the disposition of lamb likeness and meekness and humility, which is something you don't acquire by training. It is the very essence of God's own character and nature.
08:23 -  You obtain it by union, not by emulation or by imitation. That's why it's necessary for Japheth to come into the one place where that kind of character can be expressed to affect him and tone and bring a modifying aspect to his own character
08:44 -  and life, or left to himself. The very things that enlarge him will bring in the end a destruction through him to others and ultimately to himself.
08:54 -  Germany in World War II would be a wonderful illustration of that, that in its wonderful Japheth capacity it raised up a great war machine and terrorized the nations and nearly brought down the whole of Western civilization, but in the end it itself was brought down.
09:13 -  If you picture Hitler in his Berlin bunker and the Russians overhead storming in, or see pictures of a bombed out Berlin, it's a grotesque caricature of a city of which only the husks remain.
09:29 -  That's Japheth left to himself, and God's provision for this enlarged Japheth is the tempering thing that can come to him from one place only in which God has designated the Tent of Shem.
09:44 -  The unfortunate thing today is that that people who are called to be the Tent of Shem more resemble Japheth than they resemble Shem. Well today, the state of Israel is more Japheth in its character than it is Shem.
10:00 -  It itself is aggressive, dynamic, enlarged, technologically supreme, efficient, the last word in military technology and weaponry, and so much so that it's one of the leaders in the exporting of armaments into the world.
10:20 -  So in what Tent shall the world go when that people designated to be the Tent of Shem for the Japheth nations is itself a Japheth? Something has got to happen to it to come into its own designated place to be for the
10:34 -  nations what it must. And that's where the church comes in. The church that God has brought out of the nations, out of its Japheth nature and condition,
10:50 -  and infused with his life and modified by what he has been to the church and what he can be in union with himself has got to be to Israel and to the Jewish people the picture of what it is to what it itself is called.
11:12 -  The church has got to be to Israel an expression of Shem that it itself can become and fulfill its own destiny for the nations. It has to exhibit that Shem-like character, that thing that is intrinsic to those that
11:32 -  dwell in tents that are otherworldly, that exhibit an unaffected humility, the Christ-like simplicity, a contemplation, the musing that our brother Frank spoke about at the beginning of these days, a pilgrim character that tent implies that you're not stationary, you don't
11:54 -  build in one place, you're a pilgrim, a sojourner, a stranger in the earth, you're looking for a city that is whose builder and founder is God. It's a broken people, it exhibits the meekness of the Lord and the humility as I've said
12:12 -  and the mercy of the Lord and that has got to be depicted to that nation Israel called to be the Shem tent for the nations who presently are the very opposite of that to which they are called.
12:34 -  Maybe we can look at the end of the matter and catch a glimpse in Zechariah 14 where Israel will have fulfilled her destiny, what the effect on nations will be. Chapter 14 of Zechariah, in that day when the Lord himself comes to deliver Israel out of her final distress
13:00 -  in verse 8, on that day living waters shall flow out from Jerusalem, half of them to the eastern sea and half of them to the western sea. It shall continue in summer as in winter and the Lord in verse 9 will become king over all the earth, on that day the Lord will be
13:18 -  one and his name one. And then verse 10 goes on to describe the restoration of Israel from its ruins and becomes a place of habitation appropriate to the king who is seated now upon the throne of David
13:36 -  and from who Zion the law shall go forth and out of Jerusalem the word of the Lord to nations who will not again study war anymore and that this Jerusalem in verse 11 shall be inhabited though it had been reduced to rubble and ruin, it shall be built again on its own heaps as
13:54 -  we read in Jeremiah chapter 31, never again shall it be doomed to destruction, Jerusalem shall abide in security, peace. And in verse 16, what is the effect and the availability now to nations by the restoration
14:15 -  of the tent of Shem and the king who has now a place fit and appropriate for his own reign with a redeemed and restored nation? In verse 16, then all who survive of the nations that have come against Jerusalem shall go up year after year to worship the king, the Lord of
14:34 -  hosts, and to keep the festival of booths, the feast of tabernacles. And if any of the families of the earth do not go up to Jerusalem to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, there shall be no reign upon them. And if the family of Egypt does not go up and present themselves,
14:50 -  then on them shall come the plague that the Lord inflicts on the nations that do not go up to keep the festival of booths. Such shall be the punishment of Egypt and the punishment of all the nations that do not go up to keep the festival of booths. God is quite insistent
15:05 -  about this, and evidently the threat of judgment indicates that there is yet going to be a lingering reluctance and an unwillingness of nations yet to bow at the condescend to come into this tent of Shem that has now been raised in the place of God's designation,
15:22 -  Zion, the city of Zion, Jerusalem, Israel itself. And yet until they will, how shall the purposes of God for the nations be fulfilled? How shall the character of the nations be altered until they come into the place of God's designation and receive that remedial
15:46 -  effect and ministration that can only come to them from a nation that has now come into its own identity as the Shem of God? My little footnotes at the end of this lecture about these scriptures and the addition of the Bible that I have here says, those who
16:07 -  fight against Jerusalem will experience a fate like those who oppose the covenant of God. And in the tranquility of the new age that lies beyond the day of the Lord, the remnants of the other nations become Judaized and keep the annual pilgrimage festival of
16:24 -  boots. And that's what the Feast of Tabernacles is, a final in-gathering of the nations, but the nations wear into the tent of Shem to receive the precious expression of the nature of God that is implicit in a Shem-like people who are the inhabiters of tents. I would not
16:47 -  agree with the phrase Judaized, the remnants of other nations become Judaized. I would say rather they become Hebraicized. They take on something of the disposition and the character that is essentially unique to Shem and that God intends to affect all nations, for they
17:09 -  shall all be like Him and resemble Him and His praise shall go up to all the ends of the earth when this remarkable pattern and wisdom of God is affected that was expressed through Noah coming out of his drunkenness and expressing a curse to Ham, but a blessing
17:28 -  to the two other sons and indicating by the spirit of prophecy what would be the final designation of what issues from these three sons and consummates the whole redemptive work of God among the nations and in the earth. So what does it mean about the church now
17:47 -  in Ephesians chapter 2 if it is not exactly a statement of this same kind? Turn with me to 2 Ephesians chapter 2 verse 13, but now in Christ Jesus you who were sometimes were afar off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. To the verse that precedes it, you who were
18:19 -  aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world, but now in Christ Jesus you who were afar off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. You are brought in to the commonwealth of Israel. You are brought
18:37 -  in to the tent of Shem. You are saved from your own gentile nature and character that is what you were in the world in the natural, enlarged, aggressive, everything that is contrary to the spirit and ethos of God is what is exhibited by unregenerate nations and that
19:02 -  we are saved out of the grace of God that has brought us in by the blood of Messiah into that tent of Shem. To take on a new character, a Shem likeness which the Lord himself exemplified as the epitome and ultimate Son of God, the ultimate Semite is now made available to those
19:26 -  who are far off without God, without hope in the world. And what's the stratagem of God? That in bringing those sons of Japheth into the tent of Shem, that they might make those Semites who have lost their own identity and have too much, not only reflected the
19:44 -  character of nations in the world, but exemplify and are in the forefront of the Japheth nature of those nations. We are the masters of technology. We are the masters of science. We win the Nobel awards for discovery. We are the leaders in trade and industry and commerce. We are
20:04 -  the economists that President Clinton was wise enough to employ and help him through his administration, even as kings of previous times have always had in their courts Jewish physicians, Jewish economists, Jewish philosophers, because they wanted to counsel the availability
20:24 -  that they knew were intrinsic to these men that would advance their own kingdoms and bring dimensions of prosperity. So the irony is that in excelling in the world, we Jews have lost the character that God has intended. How then can we be for the nations what we
20:44 -  ought unless we ourselves come into God's intention and become the tent of Shem, the contemplative ones, not the industrious ones, the meditative, the spiritually disposed, those that contemplate God, those that are preoccupied with him first and foremost in
21:05 -  every aspect of their life and being, those who can make him known, those who can communicate the sense of God as God to those who would otherwise be floundering and walking into walls and be fornicating like jackrabbits and committing all of the kinds of atrocities
21:22 -  that we see in the world today. The world needs the tempering influence that God intends to go forth out of one place and a one people call to it, but they themselves have lost or not known or even desire to know presently what that calling is or to fulfill it. And
21:40 -  so in the wisdom of God, those that were far off, gentiles, the nations who knew nothing about the salvation that is of the Jews were by the blood of Messiah brought nigh into the commonwealth of Israel, into the covenants and promises and hopes that they should be
22:00 -  so altered by that union with the God of Shem to take on a character other than God. Other than that which was theirs in the world as the Japheth peoples and by such a means to move to jealousy, that nation called to be Shem, but who is more Japheth in his character
22:22 -  than the nations themselves. You're supposed to reveal to us what it is that we ought to have been and until you do, we will not come into that fulfillment. Paul says that the man out of joint and out of time, but what you see in me is a foreshadowing of God's
22:46 -  call to my nation and my people. Have you ever wondered why it is that God took the prize student of the Rabbi Gamaliel who is a Hebrew of the Hebrews and makes him an apostle to the gentiles and takes a dumb, dumb fisherman who has not any kind of qualification of the
23:07 -  kind that Paul had and makes him the apostle to the circumcision. What kind of logic is that? To not avail, God does not avail himself of Paul's rabbinical remarkable knowledge and understanding in order to be the apostle to his own kin, but he makes him the apostle
23:27 -  to the nations. Why? Because in so doing, God is showing us and giving us a foretaste of his design that Paul represents in his own conversion what Israel will be in the last days. That right to the time of its conversion, like Paul, it will oppose the faith and it
23:48 -  will oppose it radically and violently, but it will take an ultimate demonstration from someone in the faith like Stephen whose face shines like an angel and who sees an open heaven and the Lord at the right hand of the Father and the glory of Jesus to move this
24:07 -  resistant, Saul-like people and prick them in such a way that when the Lord reveals himself, their hearts are absolutely smitten and they're like dead for three days before they are raised up by the laying on of hands of a disciple whom the Lord sends. Once they are raised
24:25 -  up, they don't just take their place in the pew, they become the dynamic promulgators, the voice piece, the fearless communicators of this precious, Hebraic faith which they had not recognized as being Hebraic until they saw the demonstration of it in Amada.
24:48 -  Something was revealed by Stephen that lies too deep for words and Paul who was the astute and exemplary student of the Rabbi Gamaliel prized in his Jewishness and Judaic ability saw a busboy waiter on tables exhibiting a grace and a character in suffering unto death
25:13 -  that he had never seen demonstrated by those that are Judaically religious. He saw, I might say, the ultimate Shem. It's the same thing that Centurion saw at the foot of the cross in the sufferings of Jesus who had seen many men stretched out on crosses and had heard
25:32 -  them curse their persecutors and every foul kind of thing issuing from their mouths in their final dying breath. That's what flesh does when it's impaled. But when he saw this one on the cross saying, Father, forgive them for they know not what they do, when he saw
25:50 -  the magnanimity of God and the character of God that is nowhere better revealed than in suffering unto death, he said, truly this is the Son of God. There's something about ultimate suffering that reveals ultimately and it may well be that God is grooming us
26:13 -  to be a Stephen people for Jews in the world and that what we reveal in the suffering that we have to bear maybe even at their own hands, like Stephen at the hands of Saul himself in their misguided opposing themselves in their own ignorance and seeking to defend
26:34 -  their Jewishness from the very thing that would establish it will heap upon us not just their scorn but their abuse and maybe even a persecution again unto death. But the way that we bear it as Stephen, the magnanimity and the grace with which we forgive and the
26:56 -  fact that we don't collapse, that we're not in such defense of our flesh that when the stones thud into our eyes and nose and we taste our own blood, we don't cry out like a piece of outraged humanity and curse those who are persecuting us, we say, Lord forgive
27:12 -  them. We see a heaven open. We don't even feel the thud of the stones. We're so taken up in our Shem-like preoccupation with God and the glory of God whom we see with an open heavens because we're full of the spirit that we exhibit something to our persecutors that
27:32 -  stupefies them and what we are exhibiting is the very thing to which they are called and must be for the world or the world will spiral downward and out. If there's no tent of Shem for the nations of the world, there's no answer for the nations of the world and
27:51 -  we can already see the downward spiraling morally and physically that is afflicting countries the world over. American films everywhere, American culture, rock punk culture, drugs, the whole thing is an affliction over the world and reducing generations to rubble.
28:17 -  The nations are in a nosedive towards Sodom and Gomorrah and there's no remedy until a priestly people who know their God and are contemplators and meditators and dwell upon him and have union with him and can exhibit him can say, hey come into our tent. You
28:40 -  enlarge people, you aggressive and accomplished energetic dynamics who are ruining the world by your energy, come in and be tempered. Learn to be still. Learn that there's a God who says be still and know that I'm God but you're going to have to bow to enter. You don't
29:00 -  barge into this tent, you've got to come low and enter and count the privilege because there's something there waiting for you that will transform you, that will modify you, that will alter you and you'll only find it in that place or you'll not find it at all.
29:17 -  So what's the drama, you dear saints? I'm repeating myself but you need to understand it because you're called to demonstrate it and to fulfill it. You who were the Japheths of the world, who were far off and without God and without hope have been brought nigh
29:36 -  by the blood of Jesus in as it were to the tent of Shem. Therefore you're no more strangers in verse 19 of Ephesians 2 or foreigners but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. With the saints, the saints means the Jewish saints, those that did not
29:58 -  forsake Jesus, those that recognized his messiahship and constituted the early church. This was an existing thing before you came. You are not the innovation, you're not the novelty, you're invited into an already existing body but you're invited into it to take upon yourself
30:19 -  its influence and to be affected by the privilege of coming into this particular Semitic Commonwealth that will change you and erase your gentilic, aggressive, jealous, suspicious, envious, stingy, stolid, immovable, stodgyness that will not be supple and yielded. That's characteristic
30:48 -  of gentiles and God is the grace of your salvation is not just an alternative to hell for eternity but a change of life now. But a change of life of so significant a kind that so transfigures you that Israel itself now itself become Japheth will recognize in you the Semitic thing to
31:10 -  which it has been called. This word anti-Semitism has more to say than meets the eye. There's an inveterate hatred in the gentile world through that which is Semitic and however poorly we Jews now presently represent it, we're still an object of its hatred even to
31:28 -  the point of annihilation lest we fulfill it because the nations want to retain their autonomy and their independence. They like being Japheth. They like having energy. They like being enlarged. They like being enriched. They like being aggressive. They like war.
31:47 -  They like expansion. They don't want to come in to the place of seeming contraction in this little tent but it's God's grace for them if they but will. So Paul he says if you see me in a man before his time because my nation has an apostolate to the nations
32:12 -  but that apostolic character which is the very same thing as which is Semitic needs to be demonstrated and depicted for us that we might know that to which we're called. You're to be an example to us of our own destiny and calling and what makes it all the more
32:31 -  remarkable is that by nature and generically and naturally you're not Jews at all and yet you exhibit all the more profoundly for that reason what it means to be a Semite of God and that's how I got saved folks because I was like Saul an enemy of God and an enemy
32:54 -  of the church, an enemy of Christ, an enemy of Christianity, not just your passive village atheist but an active vehement opponent of the faith seeing it as being the very antithesis of progress and needing to be rooted out from the world as some old wives tale that is more
33:15 -  than an encumbrance or hindrance to civilization I was an active antagonist against the faith until my ideologies and categories collapsed as they must and the God sent me with a pack on my back into the world to travel through the nations in order to glimpse in every nation
33:36 -  whether it was Italy or Germany or Sweden, Denmark, Norway, some people who picked me up off the side of the road who were not Jews but neither could I say they were Gentiles. There was something about them and it had not to do with their physiognomy that they
33:56 -  had freckles or blonde hair or they were light or dark or tall or short, there was something inward, there was a quality, a character, I could not define it, I could not articulate it but there was a consistency no matter what nation through which I traveled and was picked
34:10 -  up by this strange people, neither Jews nor Gentiles, another species of mankind, another humanity, I was touched and I was made to see that I was in darkness and they were in the light. Maybe one of the most profound revelations came in Europe with an American
34:32 -  girl who was on vacation having graduated high school and she was by herself for the day and I bumped into her and one word led to another and she was willing to walk with me in the precious paths around the woods of that European city and she was everything
34:52 -  that symbolized, she symbolized everything that I detested as a New York Jew, white Anglo-Saxon Protestant, that's called a wasp, we Jews look with contempt the wasps, white Anglo-Saxon Protestant with their little tinsel vocabularies and their Christmas and Easter chocolate eggs
35:13 -  and bunnies and all of the other garish vulgar and pagan practices that no way indicate any real knowledge of God, it's a culture of a Gentile kind practiced on Sundays and has been our enemy throughout our history, yes there is a seeming neutrality now but who
35:37 -  knows when it's going to attack us as it has in every Christian country, that's the way Jews look upon white Anglo-Saxon Protestants and that's what this girl was, I think she was from Kansas or the Middle West, a Baptist or something icky like that, a fundamentalist
36:00 -  or evangelical but the remarkable thing was the kid was not afraid of me and I was in an imposing, terrifying figure as an angry man in the world whose Gods had failed him and yet as I walked with this girl I said, hey how come you're kind to me, how come you're
36:19 -  really, you're not afraid, oh she said it's the love of God, we took another 15 steps and I said how come that's your patient, how come you're kind, oh it's the love of God art, I thought to myself if this kid mentioned, sweet little girl that she is, if she mentions
36:37 -  God one more time she's had it, I don't have patience for these little tinsley Christians and she mentioned God again and I said okay, you're a nice little girl and all that but look kid, answer me a question that no Christian has ever successfully answered for me because
36:56 -  my hobby was to engage Christians in debate and wipe them out, so what is a little girl going to be to me, I'm a great hulk of a machine ready to stomp and I gave her the $64 question, you talked about God, the kindness of God, the love of God, tell me how do you know that
37:15 -  he is, God or no, what is she going to tell me, something she learned in Sunday school, man I'll just rev up my atheistic machine and I'll roll over her and that little thing without a moment's hesitation, I thought she was going to think of something clever she
37:33 -  remembered from Sunday school, without a moment's hesitation she tilts up that little snub nosed freckle face, sandy haired head shining with the radiance of God and said, oh she said I know that God lives, he lives in me and down went the ox, can you believe that an
37:53 -  artless little statement like that can bring down a towering Jewish intellectual, I was as much brought down to the canvas as any man who had ever been KO'd and wondering what hit me, what did she say, it wasn't even theological or even intellectual, it sounds like a cliché
38:18 -  I know that God lives, he lives in me, what gave that its power, what gave it its power was that she had a face to prove it, God did live in her for there was a light that radiated out from that middle western Kansas fundamental evangelical Christian face that I had not
38:40 -  seen anywhere in the world, including Marxist institutes and universities and I'll tell you something dear saints that you need to know coming from a Jew who's saved, there's no more powerful revelation of God than that which comes to us out of gentile faces, yeah
39:01 -  when his light shines out of your face we're overwhelmed, it's the last thing that we expect, what we expect is something aggressive, something suspicious of the kind which I occasionally get from Christians, but when you see the love of God, the light of God issuing out
39:20 -  of a gentile face we're reduced, we have not an argument, it's the light that lightens the gentiles is the glory of the people Israel, so you have a mandate and a commission to bring us to the awareness of our own call by what you demonstrate to us as those that
39:41 -  are not naturally or physically or generically Jewish and yet exhibit something that goes beyond what is Jewish, something that can be called Hebraic, Davidic, Semitic, the essence of what God is in himself, but the problem is as has been exhibited in the Bible, the
40:03 -  in these very days you're unwilling to bow, to enter, you're still proud in your gentile Japheth character, there has not been enough of the working of God evidently in your life that will bring you up out of your seat, you're still stiff, stodgy, unwilling to break and
40:27 -  to yield, you'll not come down and out and into the tent of Shem that's available to you even in these days and so the drama is postponed, so we continue to wait for you. This is the word the Lord gave me in the very first day that I arrived here not knowing
40:48 -  that I would have any opportunity to speak it, so I apologize however rude and the rudimentary that it is, you've got to show us what our apostolate is when we see it in your apostolic and Semitic character and can we be this to them as the church as we are presently constituted
41:16 -  or must we consciously seek to obtain a Shem like character which is to say a Christ like character in a Davidic and Hebraic search, amusing, meditating, contemplating, seeking of the Lord, a breaking down of our gentile characteristics, the things that are a residue
41:40 -  and that remain and that the culture wants to reinforce and that we're given every reason to resist lest we become Judaized, it's not that God wants you Judaized, He wants you Hebraicized and I'll tell you what, it's as much a call to me as it is for you, don't
42:01 -  think that because I'm a born Jew that I have an advantage in this, I myself by the same process available to you have got to come to the character that God intends both for you and for me which is Semitic, you know how you come to it, early morning communion,
42:23 -  early rising while it's yet dark, I was up this morning before you had turned over on the other side and I'm up every morning like that to seek the Lord, to bow before Him, bow before Him to come low, to say Lord I'm going to be called upon to speak but what
42:42 -  am I but a piece of dust and to communicate your mysteries and the ultimate consummation of the age that maybe already have been described as a man who just tinkers with carburetors or spark plugs and he's just got a little piece of it and he's emphasizing that as if
43:00 -  it's the whole or has he got the key and is jealous over it because he knows in his own life that when God revealed the mystery of Israel and the church out of a season of death, it was a key that brought all of my other components of my faith into a new integration,
43:24 -  into a cohesiveness that I had never enjoyed before, you who appreciated me twenty years ago here with good messages and invitations were just getting an echo of precious things that the Lord had given me in isolation, Spirit of God, discipleship, consecration but when
43:46 -  the Lord inserted the key of Israel that was not natural to me and had to be given as revelation of which Paul says we should not be ignorant then click, click, click all of the disparate and separate holy elements of the faith came together in a consistency and coherence and
44:05 -  a comprehensiveness that changed everything. It was not my experience by virtue of being a Jew, it was my experience by virtue of submitting to the deaths of God. That make resurrection reality and revelation available. I would say getting up early consistently
44:33 -  is a kind of death. Waiting on the Lord is a kind of death. Obedience to the Lord is a kind of death. Even in the things that were called to speak that might disappoint our hearers but a Semite has but one obligation only is to the God of Shem. However he's misunderstood
44:53 -  he has no alternative but obedience and when we will be consistent in obedience by obedience and faith by faith and glory by glory we will come into the character that God wants us to exhibit to a nation called to be Shem but is unhappily in the present moment Japheth.
45:15 -  But if you'll not bow to enter, if you'll not break, if you'll persist in that gentilic self, what's the word, reservation, pride, then the whole remarkable program and stratagem of God is set back and postponed because is there anything that can be said that is Shem
45:44 -  like in Semitic it is the suppleness and the yieldedness and the obedience and the poured out life which is the very essence of God himself and was demonstrated at the cross of Calvary. And that's what God has called Israel to be to the nations poured out because
46:06 -  we ourselves are suspicious, the goyim, the tentiles, we keep them at arm's length and yet God wants that there's a pouring out that is called the people to be a nation of priests and a light unto that world but they must first see the light through gentile faces
46:22 -  in that indisputable revelation for which we have not words and before which we need to bow and surrender. This arrogant piece of Jewish hot shotness with university degrees and Marxist institute backgrounds is humbled before the light of God that shines out of
46:43 -  a midwestern Kansas gentile face who's not a gentile. There's something transfiguring that goes beyond these ordinary designations that this simple little girl exhibited in her complete simplicity and what's the word Nathaniel in his guilelessness. And that's
47:05 -  she was without guile. We Jews are full of guile, full of calculation, full of manipulation. That's the very heart of Japheth's character and he was a gentile girl so called exhibiting to me what I ought to be as a Jew. I'll tell you when it comes out of a gentile face like
47:25 -  that, we're left before God without answer. All our categories dissipate, all our clever arguments come to an end. What a demonstration. It's ultimate. So I praise God that this little girl was not some little Patsy Christian who had learned her catechism and knew how to
47:46 -  recite doctrinal truths and kept her nose clean and was not in any overt conspicuous sin. There was something more than that in that girl. There was something that revealed my God. She had the light that lightens the gentiles which is also the glory of the people
48:03 -  Israel. And if we'll not see that glory through your light, we will not see it. So stay in your seats. Stay stodgy. Don't bow to enter. Don't break to come in. Don't think that you're being spoken of when there's some hint about gentile arrogance because after all, it's
48:27 -  in your role. You're so masterful in your faith and your knowledge of it, and God honors and anoints that measure of knowledge that you have, but you're unwilling to go beyond it. Was it that Scotsman who said that a rut becomes a grave when we persist in what we
48:43 -  presently have and will not go beyond and further into the now present truth in Christ Jesus? And yes, he'll anoint it because it's true, but it's not the whole truth. And might even, strange to say, be counteractive to that full truth because it seeks to keep
49:04 -  people in a certain range and category of understanding as if the issue of Israel and the consummation of the age and the effect upon nations that will praise God to all the ends of the earth when they see both the mercy and the judgment of God exhibited to that
49:25 -  people who will be His statement. What's the word? His ensign. He will raise up an ensign to all nations, and what is that ensign? What is that demonstration? It's the goodness and severity of God to a people who are the apple of His eye and yet will not exempt them
49:43 -  from the necessity of His severity and His judgment, but because they have suffered that, it will not exempt them from His mercy and His restoration and His return. Let me just close with another expression of the same thing in Isaiah 66. A strange
50:04 -  little fragment of truth that I don't think I've ever heard anyone expound. It sounds so paradoxical and illogical, and I have as a subtitle over it in italics in Isaiah 66 the vindication of Zion, and what a vindication. It says, listen, an uproar from the city in
50:27 -  verse 6, a voice from the temple, the voice of the Lord dealing retribution to His enemies, and then the whole subject shifts, and we read, before she was in labor, she gave birth. Before her pain came upon her, she delivered a son. Who has heard of such a thing? Who
50:44 -  has seen such things? Shall a land be born in one day? Shall a nation be delivered in one moment? Yet, as soon as Zion was in labor, as soon as Zion prevailed, she delivered her children. Shall I open the womb and not deliver, says the Lord? Shall I, the one who delivers,
51:04 -  shut the womb, says your God? Rejoice with Jerusalem and be glad for her. All you who love her, rejoice with her in joy. All you who mourn over her, that you may nurse and be satisfied from her consoling breast, that you may drink deeply with delight from her
51:19 -  glorious bosom. For thus, says the Lord, I will extend prosperity to her like a river, and the wealth of the nations like an overflowing stream. And you shall nurse and be carried on her arm and dandled on her knees, as a mother comforts her child. So I will comfort
51:34 -  you. You shall be comforted in Jerusalem. You shall see and your heart shall rejoice. Your body shall flourish like the grass, and it shall be known that the hand of the Lord is with his servants.
51:45 -  Whew! Interpret that thought. Well, I'll take a shot at it. But it's a remarkable quandary that it's not Israel in travail for herself. It's someone called Zion. And when Zion will travail, a nation will be born in a day who is inert and unto death even now
52:09 -  and incapable of the birthing process. So depleted will that people be, and so depleted must they be, lest they take any opportunity to boast that their restoration is the result of themselves. They have got to be prostrate like the dry bones in Ezekiel. So someone
52:27 -  else has got to travail. And I ask any woman in this room who's ever given birth, or any husband who has observed the travail of his wife in that birth process, who would be willing to undertake that for another? It's enough you undertake it for your own. That's gentilic,
52:46 -  your own. But what is semitic is for another. It's the willingness to suffer a travail, which are the pangs of death in order to bring life for another who is called Jerusalem. You are going to birth the Jerusalem of God. That will be a blessing to all the nations
53:04 -  of the earth. The nations will come up to that Jerusalem who now fear it because something was worked in the mystery of God by some people other than an inert Israel called the servants, called Zion, who will travail and bear the death pangs and the extreme pain and anguish
53:25 -  of birthing so that subsequently when that nation is birthed, even in a day, it waits for this travail, you will be dandled upon her knees, and you will be fondled by her, and you will suck from her breasts, and you will be comforted because you have mourned
53:44 -  for her. Oh, I tell you these scriptures are full of mystery, but there's a consistency in them all. This Zion is us, us who have come, us who have been born, us who have been into the full purpose of God and will rejoice for the Jerusalem that is birthed that will
54:10 -  bless all the families of the earth because we have first mourned for her, because we have first been identified with her, and we're so identified even as Gentiles who have no natural reason to have any affinity for Israel, for Jews at all, naturally but spiritually
54:28 -  see them as our brethren, see them as one with us even in their present unbelief and apostasy, see them in the eye of God in their future fulfillment of their destiny where they will be the tent into which the Jehovah's nations will come and be blessed.
54:44 -  And while they yet sin as we love them, and we love them so much and are so identified that we mourn for them in their judgment and we travail for them in their birthing. Until it comes from us, until we are that Zion, there is no new nation, there is no Jerusalem
55:07 -  that will be a solace to the nations. There will be no tent into which the Jehovah's nations will come to the feast of tabernacles to exalt God who has blessed this nation and given it a name, a place above all of the nations, because it has first been abased
55:22 -  unto death in its sin and in its judgments, but the mercy of God is greater than its judgment. Lord, if you don't give us the Spirit of Revelation and banging my lips in vain, this sounds like so much hogwash, such an identification with this nation that is totally unnatural for
55:48 -  anyone who is still in his own nationhood, who is more English or German or Dutch or whatever his origin than he is Hebraic. Lord, if you don't give us the Spirit of Revelation and banging my lips in vain, this sounds like
56:09 -  how much has the faith tempered you? How much have you been in relationship with the God of Shem that you have taken on his disposition, his coloration, his spirit, his attitude, his mindset, because if you did, you would love what he loves and you would mourn for
56:26 -  what he mourns. You would grieve for the things for which he grieves and you would have the faith to believe for the things for which he knows will come, and not just the faith that awaits it, but the faith that participates in its coming by your willingness to travail
56:40 -  and bear the pangs of birth that you might be suckled by that one whom you have birthed by your own travail and be dandled upon her knee and find consolation from that very people for whom you have mourned.
56:58 -  I have never before spoken this anywhere. First time here in the boondocks of Cranbrook, British Columbia. Maybe it's the center of Anglo-Saxon gentile pride only thinly masked by a Christianity that has not gone deep enough to change its gentilic character and to make
57:24 -  it the sons and daughters of Shem. And the last thing that holds them back is the unwillingness to bow, to enter, the unwillingness to break, the unwillingness to acknowledge, well, I'm not conscious art that I have anything against Jews. Well, you may not have anything against,
57:42 -  but do you have anything for? How is it that you've been so long in the Word of God and have not caught glimpse of this mystery? And even in the hearing of it from a speaker in these days, you give no evidence that you've heard anything. The problem is stubborn recalcitrant
58:03 -  gentile Anglo-Saxon Germanic pride, chafeless, unwilling to bow, to enter, to break, and to come. Oh, the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God, who has been his counselor. What is Paul's getting all excited about where language can't even
58:26 -  contain his euphoric doxology? Because he has seen something more than merely Israel's redemption. Great though that is, what he has seen is that in the very process of Israel's restoration and return, the church that has been too long gentilic in its character is
58:47 -  itself transformed and comes into its own ultimate identity with God that will make it a bride for the bridegroom in its very involvement with the purposes of God for this other people Israel. It's totally unnatural. It's not to be expected. There's no human
59:10 -  logic that will explain it. It's all together the work of God by his spirit and through his work. So Lord, what shall we say unto you, my God? What a calling, what a mystery, what a fulfillment to the glory of God forever. You know what these days represent. We thought
59:37 -  it was only a conference, but evidently you may have had an intention beyond ours of an event of a kind whose time has come. The kairos, the set time to favor Zion has come and you're waiting for something from your servants who are willing to travail, willing to identify,
59:59 -  willing to be one with a people for whom everything in their natural, gentile history and life is antithetical, is opposed, is indifferent, is resistant that only the spirit of God and the love of God and the nature of God would make them, enable them to transcend those
01:00:21 -  earthly categories and bring them into a relationship with a people who would otherwise have every reason to be despised. And when the nations see that, they will fear the name of the Lord and worship him in the place where he has designated. Oh, what a demonstration, Lord.
01:00:43 -  And it waits for a Zion who can't prevail. It waits for sons and daughters of Shem who have themselves bowed and broken and entered into that one place where this mystery has its fulfillment. And so I offer that as an invitation, Lord, to these men and women whom
01:01:04 -  you have assembled and remain on this final morning, not only for themselves personally but for the church at large, that they will come and represent the church of their locality or the church of their knowledge or the church of their association and pray and represent
01:01:25 -  a brokenness for which you wait from all your people. And it only comes in conjunction with this Israel or it will not come at all. This is the thing that finds us out. This is that last thing in your wisdom that identifies that last Gentile reservation, that last iota
01:01:48 -  of pride that would not otherwise have been detected except when we are confronted with the issue of this people. May it find us out this morning. May we break over it, that there's still a reservation that is unwilling to choose what you have chosen and unwilling
01:02:09 -  to have mercy on what you will have mercy. So in the name of Jesus, the head of the church, the holy one of Israel, the ultimate Samite, the God whose wisdom has established this glorious scheme, I invite you for yourself and for the church to bow and break and enter.