Sin and Atonement

00:00 -  If you'll read Ben Israel, it describes how a German art teacher picked me up off the side of the road, and in my time with him, he recommended that I go out of my way to see this painting, and I was transfixed.
00:17 -  It's about eight or nine feet high. I had seen depictions of Jesus before, but never as shocking as this. So this shows the grotesqueness of the cross, and when you stare at it, you know you're
00:39 -  looking at a man or an animal twisted it grotesquely. We don't have the full length of this. The feet are stretched out and misshapen, the mouth is open, and it's pitiful.
00:53 -  You see the pieces of wood, metal from the flatulation actually in the skin, which is becoming already gangrenous. It's a real sense of the horror of the death of Jesus.
01:09 -  The other side shows the resurrection, which will hang at another time, and every place where the body is perforated and the resurrection beams of glory shine through. So you walk around the painting, you're confronted with the death, you walk around on the back,
01:29 -  you see the resurrection. It's a remarkable, as I say, holy ghost masterpiece of realism. The only thing that's in question is this little loin cloth, whether indeed the victims
01:45 -  were allowed the dignity of having their private parts covered. My own suspicion is that they died nakedly, and how part of their suffering was the humiliation, particularly as Jews, to be exposed like that to the open gaze of anyone.
02:03 -  So that's an appropriate backdrop for our considerations today, and however long the Lord will keep us on the subject of sin and atonement. So Lord, again, we're privileged to have the leisure of such contemplation, and we invite
02:24 -  you, my God, to instruct us. It's almost presumptuous for any man to think that he can make any presentation of the issue of sin and salvation, except you who became sin and obtained salvation and have the wounds
02:43 -  to prove it. So Lord, so much as you incarnate in me and in us, let that mystery of incarnation find expression through this clay, this dust, in which you are again willing to be humbled
03:01 -  and limited, contained, and give expression, my God, to these very great themes of the New Testament faith. Lost even to the Church, let alone to the unbelieving world.
03:16 -  We thank you for this privileged time and invite you again to be totally Lord of it. In Jesus' name, amen. So I'll just begin by, I'm spread out here this morning with all kinds of books and things
03:30 -  to cite, if the Lord is pleased. So here's an attempt by John Murray, the same author of the Commentary on Romans, on a chapter in a little book entitled Justification, in which he attempts to
03:45 -  define sin as that the essence of sin is to be against God. The person who is against God cannot be right with God, for if we are against God, then God is against us.
03:59 -  It could not be otherwise. God cannot be indifferent to or complacent towards that which is the contradiction of himself.
04:08 -  His very perfection requires the recoil of righteous indignation, and that is God's wrath. How's my voice coming over?
04:18 -  I've got my old hearing aids. I'm going to change it. I'm not happy.
04:23 -  But can you hear okay? No problem. So wrath is a dirty word.
04:32 -  It's an ugly word, wrath. It exceeds human anger and indignation. It's divine, and that God is capable of it is a statement about God himself.
04:45 -  How can a benevolent God, who is synonymous with love, righteousness, mercy, patience, kindness, all of the attributes that we so admire and covet, also be capable of wrath? Is it unbecoming for him to have this attribute also, or would God be God without it?
05:09 -  And what is it that justifies that holy indignation of wrath expressed as judgment in hell eternally? What could take place in the earth with men that is that vile, that abhorrent,
05:27 -  that painful in God's own sight and consideration that it justifies his wrath and the penalty of his wrath? These are the great questions, and it compels us to see as God sees.
05:47 -  We ourselves would not be that offended by sin. We would not think of Decrebus. Why does he?
05:55 -  Because sin is against God, and it's a willful against. It's not an inadvertent or accidental. It's a calculated, willful opposition to God in the form of apostasy, rebellion,
06:11 -  iniquity, choosing those things that are contrary to him that justifies his wrath. And there's nothing that more offends the world than to be told that, that God is angry with the sinner every day,
06:29 -  that he who hath the Son hath life, and he who hath not the Son hath not life, and the wrath of God abides upon him. It's as if God is saying, what my son has performed
06:42 -  at so excruciating a cost, is my great gift to mankind in their sin. And to reject that is to deserve the wrath in which abides upon you. The fact that you're not conscious of it,
07:00 -  or it's not part of your subjective sense of yourself, does not lessen its truth. In fact, the whole issue of sin, judgment, hell, atonement, rests upon what God tells us about it,
07:19 -  and not what is revealed to us by our subjective understanding. In fact, it throws us into an immediate tizzy, a confrontation between to what shall we defer,
07:35 -  our own natural human and rational sense of things and observation, or what God says is the truth of the matter. The issue of sin and the issue of atonement is the issue of God.
07:53 -  It's the issue of Scripture. It's the issue of the Word of God. So if we don't have the Word of God as a foundational criterion,
08:03 -  and we just go by our own assessments, sin is a very light thing if it constitutes anything at all. In fact, the world is remarkably devoid of sin consciousness,
08:16 -  and my Jewish people are foremost in the absence of sin consciousness. Even though, even among the Orthodox, there might be some reiteration of the use of the word in the Yom Kippur season,
08:33 -  the word sin has not penetrated the depths of real consciousness. So I'm remembering that in one of my Brooklyn jaunts, I went into a local synagogue,
08:47 -  and they invited me to come back for the teaching that precedes Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement, that was going to be given by a chassid, a pious man. And when he finished, it was so trivial,
09:03 -  I said, you make it sound like some Boy Scout outing. You make it sound like some petty offense. I'm not at all impressed with your presentation that there's any need for a Day of Atonement,
09:19 -  because you make the issue of sin so trivial. Like, for example, one of the rabbinical explanations for a terrorist attack years ago in Israel's history where they came ashore in rubber dinghies,
09:38 -  commandeered a bus, went into a rural Israeli settlement, and shot up the nursery school. There were about, oh, I don't know, 20 children killed and teachers, and the explanation of the rabbis, it was a judgment, because the mezuzah,
09:55 -  that little thing that is nailed on the entry in the doorway, was not at its proper angle. All of that betrays a failure to understand sin. All of that betrays a failure to understand sin as God sees it and to depict it as man would assess it,
10:14 -  which is always something lighter and less than as God would have us to see it. Man will always justify himself when he is his own judge and makes his own assessment of his own condition. So, what saves man from this kind of subjectivity that is flattering and will be contradicted in the day of God's wrath?
10:41 -  That would be contradicted in the day in which they stand before the judge and suffer the penalty. There's a day of reckoning. Men will stand before the judge, and who is the judge? Who is the judge? When Paul was at Athens, he said,
10:58 -  God has appointed a day in which he will judge all men by that man whom he has raised from the dead. So, when they see the judge, they're going to see a man with wounds and scars. So, if they got away with pretense, self-justification,
11:19 -  how many of you know that that's a human propensity? Now, we can fornicate and call it love, call it romance, call it a fleeting moment that may not come again, that God knows we deserve because we've worked so hard, because we've been snubbed,
11:36 -  because we've been offended. It's even a recompense from very God himself. Men, sinful men, rationalizes, justifies, and dismisses the case against himself when he is his own judge. But when he stands before the judge, who has a complete book upon him,
12:03 -  not only his conduct, but his secret heart, and there you have to face the penalty, what will be your defense then? Ingrid, my wife, says, I have never seen you afraid. I'm so gutsy. I go where angels fear to tread. The only thing, she said, that I've ever seen you
12:25 -  frightened is when the red light of a police car comes up in your rearview mirror and you're required to pull to the side of the road. That's the only time I've seen you afraid. What am I afraid of? That I'm going to have to pay a penalty of 50, 75 bucks? Is that it? No.
12:44 -  Of course, it hurts. What I'm afraid of is something instinctive about being caught in the act, being confronted with my misdeed on the spot in a way that is not to be explained away, and there it is. The red light is blinking on and off, and you've had it. You're guilty,
13:06 -  and you know it. That terrifies me, not because of the financial penalty, but the idea of being guilty and caught without excuse. You can believe that we are being opposed today. I'm hearing from others that they also had a 6AM visitation of the kind that I described.
13:31 -  Is that coincidence, or is there a kind of a concerted attack against members of this body when the enemy knows what he's sensing, what is in store for today? If he can in any way distract us or counteract against it, it would be a significant victory for darkness and a serious loss
13:54 -  for the church. If the enemy can defeat us here, if he can persuade us that this is a light question, if he can keep us from the apostolic appropriation of the exceeding sinfulness of sin, he has won a victory that is incalculable, for it keeps the church on the ground of triviality.
14:21 -  Even if it maintains its vocabulary, it's effete, E-F-F-E-T-E. It is without substance and without gut. It does not cut, it does not penetrate, it does not bring conviction, it doesn't bring repentance, it doesn't bring change. It's a ceremonial thing because the church itself
14:43 -  does not believe its own message, and the evidence is that its own pastors are out there fornicating with their secretaries or the worship leader. That's how light the question of sin has become in the church itself. So I'm saying, however men justify themselves
15:05 -  and get by, and they'll divorce or be divorced, and they'll marry again, hoping for a more cordial arrangement and they may succeed at that, and blaming the spouse that has been rejected as the cause for the failure, and then go on maybe to a series of failures, and go through a whole
15:26 -  lifetime of self-justification in sin, and never once acknowledge the truth of their condition, though they've left by the wayside children with that spouse, children without spouse, children with that spouse, but they'll have to stand before the judge and suffer the penalty
15:46 -  of his wrath if they have not received him who bore the wrath and has received their sin and through whom they have obtained forgiveness and the dismissal of the record against them by that, by his blood. When you contemplate this picture, you're seeing the wrath of God
16:11 -  visited upon the Son of God. What he is suffering is that wrath. Imagine if he had not suffered it, and that wrath would fall upon the guilty. You'd be wrecked, you'd be devastated, both for time and in eternity. So he's receiving the cumulative wrath of mankind's sin, past, present, future,
16:37 -  in a six-hour travail of body and soul that was mercifully ended when he gave up the ghost, because no man takes his life, he lays it down. But until then, this is the picture of wrath. Now why did God not divert it away? Why does God require it? These are the great questions.
17:07 -  Can God be God who is righteous and just and not deal with the issue of sin in this way and not demonstrate his abhorrence, horror, and indignation at that which is calculated against him as God? Because if he takes it easy on the issue of sin and plays patsy and condescends
17:33 -  and looks the other way, what would be the consequence of that for mankind in the kind of green light that will be given it for further indulgence and for the failure to apprehend God as God? What would the world be? What would mankind be if it's devoid of any consciousness
17:59 -  of God as holy, as righteous, as just, and that anything goes and that there's no reprimand and no consequence either in this life or the life to come? What would such a world be is what in fact the world is actually becoming. It's called Sodom and Gomorrah. There's no fear of God.
18:28 -  Sin is not just tolerated, it is celebrated. And when we'll look further into Romans chapter 1 and 2, Paul says not only do they do these things, homosexuality and lesbianism that is in God's sight abomination because he abandons them to their own lust and to the most vile
18:51 -  expressions of it, but that their sin is condoned and applauded by others who know that the very participation in that sin obtains for the sin of death. And yet the sin is applauded and condoned by those who observe it as being the final statement of the degradation of mankind
19:14 -  that it's not only not chafed by sin or self-conscious or even embarrassed, but applauds and endorses it though it knows that it's the way to death. That's the statement of human depravity. And which of you sweet characters would not be capable of it
19:40 -  given the opportunity and condition and circumstance? So long as you think yourself inviolate, you're living a fool's paradise and you have a presumption about yourself and your condition that is contrary to what God's word says is the truth of it. For we have all sinned in
20:05 -  Adam and there's no man good, no not one. And if God were to mark iniquity, who can stand? And if you'll not believe that for the word of God, he'll give you opportunity to experience it to your humiliation. So let me read the warning given by this writer. Far too frequently we fail
20:33 -  to entertain the gravity of this fact of God's wrath. Hence the reality of our sin and the reality of the wrath of God upon us for our sin do not come into our reckoning. This is the reason why the grand article of justification does not ring the bells in the innermost depths of our spirit.
20:56 -  And this is the reason why the gospel of justification is to such an extent a meaningless sound in the world and in the church of the 21st century. We are not imbued with the profound sense of the reality of God, of his majesty and holiness and sin, if reckoned with at all,
21:19 -  is little more than a misfortune or maladjustment. Agree with that? He is really nailing the church because if the church has lost this reality, what then is its message? What then is its presence in the world? What is it communicating to sinners in the world if it has lost the sense of sin,
21:46 -  of wrath, of judgment and of atonement? So it behooves the church to be made conscious. What is God's provision against man's subjective self-rationalization and self-justification by which sin is made trivial? What has God done to save man and that he would be without excuse
22:18 -  before him in the day of judgment even if he has never opened the Bible? You're the church and you can't answer that question. Lord we're in serious condition here. What has God done that man would be without excuse in the day of judgment? Though he can say I never read the Bible,
22:40 -  I didn't know, nobody told me. The very act of God in Christ, this mangled wreck that took place in time and history is God's statement of the severity of sin. For if it were not that real, not that significant, this would not be necessary. The
23:03 -  fact that God bore this is God's statement in itself of what sin is and what is required to expiate it. To avoid this picture and this crucified Christ that is pushed into the face of mankind and point of time historically and is available for anyone's consideration unless they consciously
23:30 -  and willfully circumvent and avoid it, they are then without excuse. Just the awareness of this has got to bring a man into a consideration like wow, why was this necessary? And set in motion those considerations by which he can appropriate the benefit of that shed blood. Jesus is a piece
23:56 -  of stubborn divine facticity. God has left mankind without excuse. My Jewish kinsmen without excuse because what they have done with this is to sweep it under the carpet. Jesus was a misfit. He was a political presumer. He jostled the Roman authorities. He was
24:21 -  presumptuous about his own credential. He made himself a candidate of something he need not have suffered. But we don't have to occupy ourselves with this. It's a minor note in Jewish history. He's just a megalomaniac, a presumer who suffered the unfortunate consequence. Now let's go on.
24:43 -  What Jewry has lost is not only the benefit of the Atonement but the knowledge of God as God. Because in this one act, we see the Son bearing the wrath of the Father, offering himself a sinless sacrifice by the eternal Spirit. So all three aspects of the
25:06 -  Godhead that constitutes God as God is caught up in this one historic act for which all men are accountable. Something like this can't happen in history and be dismissed. To dismiss it is to be guilty. To dismiss it is to be sinful. To dismiss it is an unwillingness
25:36 -  to understand God's statement because one wants to continue in the very thing for which this act was provided. Can you understand? The issue of Jesus is confrontation. It's the revelation of sin. No matter what man has said about himself, no matter how he justifies
25:57 -  himself, there's this stubborn fact that has taken place in time and history which he cannot evade. So that the Father could rightfully ask any man, what have you done with my son? How have you understood his death? What did you think the crucifixion of Jesus was?
26:15 -  A little mishap in history who cried out, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? It is finished that even a dumb centurion at the foot of the cross, a gentle dumb dumb professional murderer witnessing this Jesus giving up the ghost cries out, truly this is the Son of
26:39 -  God. A Gentile can say that and the Jewish nation before whom he's made a public object of humiliation can miss it. That missing it is willful. Sin is willful contrariness against God and nowhere is it more marked and more repunctuated than the willful dismissal of the crucified Christ.
27:08 -  Okay, so God's justice demanded this expiation, this sin bearing, but God's love required the statement because he knew man and he knows what is in man and he knows man's self-justifying propensity. So what is God's provision? The painful agonizing suffering death
27:39 -  of his son to confront us. So for example, when Gibson's film came out and the great hullabaloo that Jews will suffer a fresh backlash of anti-Semitism, which never happened, many Christians came to the defense of the Jewish community and said, well, Jesus died for all men's
28:03 -  sin, so you don't have to worry that this is going to mock you in any significant way. It took place, yes, in your time and in your nation and your high priests and your religious leadership and scribes and Pharisees were instrumental and the crowd cried, give us
28:25 -  Barabbas, but he died for all men's sins. Yes, that's true, but that does not absolve the Jewish community for being instrumental in that death. To get them off the hook is to rob them of the very thing by which conviction for sin can come, that Jesus made himself available as a victim
28:51 -  at their hands because he knows the Jewish propensity for self-justification and self-righteousness that would excuse itself, so that they have reason now to be revealed in their implication. Yes, though he died for all men's sin, that does not absolve you as being the
29:17 -  willful instrument in that death and he made himself available for you to be your victim so that you can be convicted of your sin by your implication. The whole world lieth in the wicked one who's the father of lies and the greatest lie that he has perpetrated is about the human
29:41 -  condition itself, that there is such a thing as a man who is good and they were not all that bad and it's not really sin, it's just adjustment or some other way of understanding or dismissing. He's a deceiver and his greatest power is to deceive us about the truth of our own condition
30:03 -  as God sees it. So God's answer is this statement as well as the scripture, as well as the testimony of the apostles, as well as the whole history of Israel's redemptive sacrifices by the blood of bulls and calves that was finally superseded by one sacrifice that is for all time for all men and
30:29 -  forever this sacrifice. There's a whole history of the shedding of blood through a priesthood to impress upon the nation that is called to be holy what the issue of sin is that requires expiation through the shedding of blood for they're told in Leviticus without the shedding of blood
30:51 -  there is no remission for sin. Sin does not need to be explained to them as a principle and that by which they will be persuaded that it's true because they know sin. What man who lives with any degree of reality is not conscious of sin and when he sees
31:15 -  the blood and the continual sacrifices, the rivers of blood, the high priest once a year atoning for the nation having first atoned for himself and going into the holy of holies with a rope tied around his ankle so that if he dies within the holy place because he has missed
31:34 -  an adequate atonement for his own sin the bells have stopped tingling at the hem of his garment and they know that the act has not been consummated the nation is still in its sin and they dragged the corpse out by the rope. They held their breath when the high priest went in
31:55 -  once a year into the holy of holies with the blood of bulls and calves to sprinkle it on the mercy seat for the forgiveness of the nation and its unconscious sins. They were steeped in those practices that prepared them for this that Jesus was crucified on the Passover at the very hour
32:19 -  when the lambs were being slain having been on view for three and a half years in the same way that the first lamb in Egypt they were told to take a lamb for the house on the 10th of Nisan and slain on the 14th. Why? To keep it four days on observation so that if there be any defect any
32:43 -  blemish it would be forfeited it cannot be used it had to be a perfect lamb in its maturity so that Jesus coming 5 000 years later is before his nation for four years 40 years or four three and a half years of his public ministry and when he is apprehended he
33:07 -  says to these men which of you can convict me of sin when John the Baptist sees him coming into the waters of the Jordan he says behold the lamb of God who has come to take away the sins of the world these things are written for your what's the word admonition about whom the ends of the
33:32 -  age have come we are the inheritors of Israel's history and preparation we ought to have a an appropriate comprehension of that whole biblical background of which this is the culmination but if we miss it and I want to tell you this we're missing it to the exact degree of our own sinfulness
33:56 -  dum da dum dum if you're dull now it's not because you're dull it's not because you didn't get a full night's sleep you're missing it in exact proportion to your own sinfulness it has dulled you your your non-compassment this you cannot hear you cannot follow
34:16 -  your untouched unimpressed and unaffected is the issue of sin in your life it has found you out that's why you're unresponsive that's why you're unperceiving it's to the degree that there is in you sin negates the issue we need to inquire why is it
34:39 -  that others who were at the foot of the cross or observing did not come to the same conclusion as the roman centurion truly this is the son of God that's because that acknowledgement was salvation what about the jews that were there instead of saying that they said if you be the
34:59 -  son of God come down and we will believe you they mocked and taunted watching the writhing painful victim on the cross they saw the same thing as the centurion but they spoke in a totally other way observing the same phenomenon and the answer is their sin forbade it their sin of pride
35:20 -  their arrogance their contempt their disdain blocks out God's message but something in that centurion God bless him was free enough to get what God was saying and cry out in a way contrary to the jews who should have been the first to see and the first to recognize seeing that they
35:41 -  were groomed and trained out of a whole history of sin and sacrifice and expiation by blood that the centurion when he saw that Jesus had given up the ghost he cried out truly this is the son of God something happened when he watched how Jesus departed this life
36:02 -  that was different from all the other previous victims whose death he had observed as a professional executioner there was something in this death and suffering uniquely different from all of the others who have writhed on the cross who spat out their curses who defamed those who were abusing them
36:21 -  this one is forgiving his executions for their sin lay not their sin to their charge he's acting with there's a certain composure even a calm and a magnanimity and a grace and his legs don't have to be broken the other two had to have their legs broken to shorten their agonizing death span
36:43 -  because exit because the cross is a form of suffocation because of the unusual posture your your chest fills up with blood or fluid that's why the water came out when he was speared and in order to avoid suffocation they stretch their feet but when they break the legs they
37:01 -  can't stretch they suffocate they died Jesus died in fact when patia's pilot was told that Jesus was dead he was surprised how could he be dead so early because men did not take his life he gave it up he cried with a loud voice to my father unto you do i commit my spirit and that
37:22 -  was it and the centurion is seeing this this is different from all previous deaths there's something exhibited here of the majesty of the victim not just because of the suffering but through his suffering that all the more illustrates that he is the king of the kingdom and that's probably
37:41 -  a glimpse of what the uh the criminals saw so all of this needs to be factored in see there's something in the suffering christ that reveals the ultimate truth and condition of men and what they say in those final moments of how they view is the ultimate statement of the truth of themselves
38:02 -  as they're confronted with this truth and my frustration is why aren't we as students being confronted what is keeping us from the recognition would would we be any more moved if we saw the live thing see what i mean what what is it is there a statement of us that is impeding the the
38:23 -  breakthrough in consciousness that God is wanting because this should be an everlasting testimony it's a statement once and for all in time and history can't be repeated but the magnitude of that statement should resonate throughout all time and all places
38:42 -  it's a once and for all given of God and that somehow it's not registered on the church and i'm wanting to know why what's wanting is it some apostolic commentary because evidently the the the the criminal who was saved and this day will be
39:05 -  with me in paradise did not hear it the centurion did not hear it something was available right there and then with the the suffering christ that made it or broke it for the one or for the other that should be equally as valid and available for us that we have a certain concept of our
39:28 -  own self-righteousness that that in um what's the word not nullifies though enures us that's the word i-n-u-r-e enures us from the reality that just as it served to inure the jewish critics it enures us even as christians to the degree that we share with them some degree of a
39:53 -  self-righteousness which is sin while the centurion was devoid of just that thing and saw what he needed for his salvation so what if i i made the blunt statement before if you're not touched if if you're indifferent it's not a statement that you're dull this morning or you're lacking
40:15 -  sleep it's a statement that sin itself is clouding your ability to perceive the enormity of what this represents and sin in the form of self-righteousness probably is the point at issue that we need to recognize don't forget to factor in not only the grief of the son the
40:40 -  the agony of his own suffering physically and morally the absence of the father but the grief as we mentioned the other day of the father himself the father is suffering with his the son in this painful death maybe it's all the more excruciating for the father because he's hearing
40:59 -  the cry of the son why have you forsaken me and it tears his heart out because the father's deepest impulse is to relieve the son of such an excruciating suffering but he cannot he has to turn a deaf ear to the cry of his own son about abandonment and that what is that for a God who's holy
41:25 -  what is that for a father who is righteous and moral who's the epitome of what is moral to be unable to relieve his son from the excruciating death for which he's crying out why do you abandon me so that the father is suffering and the unique agony of his own kind
41:47 -  that has to be coupled with the suffering of the son to get a sense of what God in the Godhead has paid for the atonement for sin which raises the question how hideous is sin that it required that magnitude of suffering both from the father and the son and why is it that we could be
42:10 -  indifferent and just note it as a kind of a fact of the faith and a doctrine to which we're obliged to subscribe but have no pang no inward registration of the of the enormity of this and are left devoid and untouched as christians i think we need to go back to the garden
42:32 -  we need to examine the first classic prototype of sin that we all share in the calculated rebellion and defiance against God who had made of them but one request of every any tree in the garden you may eat except this one tree and they violated that simple
42:56 -  requirement as an obstinate willful act as if though God had said that we are at liberty to disregard that because in the eating of that fruit we ourselves will be made wise and as God and he probably sought to discourage our eating because he didn't want to share
43:16 -  his deity with us in his jealousy to keep it to himself so we bought this the snake sly the serpent serpent sly i mean we have to devote an entire session just to examining the anatomy of sin in its very first expression because the first is always the classic statement
43:36 -  and we don't have to go far to go from there to cain and abel where the lord warns cain that sin is crouching at the door and he does not heed that warning and kills his brother out of envy because the brother's sacrifice was consumed by fire accepted by God while his was neglected
44:00 -  and then when God says and where is your brother how should i know am i my brother's keeper as if God did not see that murder in a word as if God is not God as if he can be ignored with impunity is the statement of human arrogance conceit self-will rebellion complete indifference
44:27 -  against God mocking him about being God who can see and judge even though he has warned and to be indifferent to that warning and having performed the murder to make oneself as if how should i know and when God makes him a fugitive he says this punishment is too much for me
44:51 -  it wasn't too much for him to kill his brother but to suffer a mild consequence it's too much for me self-pity self-righteousness self-self-self and we have inherited that adamic cain taint and it's a moot question whether unless we have really appropriated this to what degree
45:15 -  does it yet remain to blunt even our consideration that God is wanting to press upon our consciousness even though to what degree are we superseding God are we making our own independent judgments yes God has said but i don't know
45:31 -  it's how you look at it you know i'm not impressed i'm i'm the arbiter i'm the one who's really assessing yes though God has said but i don't really believe in my inward heart that that is necessarily so see me we're still performing an elevation over God as his creation over the creator
45:55 -  which is why God abandons men to their lust that it works itself out in the most abominable forms maybe one of the vilest forms of that is turning the truth into a lie by making the truth a truism we have sanctified the truth it's kosher it's an article of faith it's a doctrine to which we
46:19 -  subscribe but it's not alive in our spirit our consciousness or our concern but we will mouth but we will mouth it as a platitude when you turn truth into truism you have turned the truth into a lie and you've hindered the truth by subscribing to that and commending it to others as as palp
46:41 -  pap as what you would call it this something light so we want to keep from the blood and from the cross so we'll have a fig leaf that has the form of the truth but not its essence or its power and what is so sinful is we inwardly know that and continue in it and subscribe to it
47:05 -  and our participant in it as the church in in disseminating it for the problem that it has become so that the sin of men is not only his unrighteousness but also his righteousness and in fact his righteousness is yet a more deadly form than his sin of unrighteousness which is much
47:27 -  more visible and discernible but the sin of our righteousness is what keeps us from the realization the appropriation of this so great provision is there in me a post-christian self-righteousness that is yet operative more tenacious deep pervasive and continuing than ever i imagined
47:50 -  and is my dullness today toward this subject the very evidence of its existence that i have never imagined because i thought i was a proper christian the why then was your self-righteousness not dealt with in your conversion how how deep was your conversion how much was it a
48:10 -  disgust with your natural man and a willingness to forsake all unto death and are coming to the cross how much was your baptism a burial of that natural man because you know that there was no good that could come from him and that you believe there'd be a resurrection to notice of life or
48:26 -  how much was it just a religious requirement to which you submitted but you never went into it as a death nor a burial and therefore your self-righteousness remains therefore you're obdurate therefore you're insensitive and even offended if a suggestion is made that what blocks
48:46 -  your comprehension and your aliveness to this issue is your yet prevailing sin and the sin is the sin of self-righteousness it could not be true of me because you'll be the last one to know it because you're full of self-justification and self-celebration you can't see it until this
49:07 -  reveals it it's being revealed this morning you ask the lord is there a deep tenacious self-righteousness yet alive in me that has not been submitted to the cross that endures me to the reality if so i repent of it i forsake it and i bring it into death and it's a death
49:30 -  that will be total or we're still playing a game with the cross and just verbalizing something without its actualization and therefore we'll be hindering the righteousness of God by hindering his righteousness by our unrighteousness and making it pablum rather than a message for a
49:54 -  dying world got the idea well all the while we're students seeking to to grow in the knowledge of the lord so long as there's a place of admiration and even hope to serve God by the natural man and to be spiritual by the natural man we're not bringing anything to death we're just bringing
50:12 -  verbal categories into the water and we come up the same as we went down it was not a it was not a going down into the Jordan of death because we still want to retain the the original life and see it improved and even employed in the service of God until you despair and agree with
50:32 -  God that in man there's no good thing at all why call this army good there's no man good but God until you believe that your baptism is a fake so lord we don't want to go any further we don't want to be guilty of hindering the righteousness of God by holding it in unrighteousness
50:53 -  as a platitude and so we're asking lord your deepest dealing with us today or else we have come to a loggerhead where we're backed up and it'll be pointless to go on we would just add to go on we would just add confusion and embarrassment rather than understanding
51:17 -  lord help us at this juncture we pray you've brought us to these impasse and we ask for the mercy that will bring us through it in truth in Jesus name amen