The Holocaust as Judgment 3 of 3

00:00 -  Good morning, Saints and Saintesses, and those of you who are caring to observe lengths, avoiding the conspicuous places in the synagogue and the front pews. You can repent of that and change your seat and come forward.
00:17 -  This is more than just an issue of seating. It's a spiritual matter when there are great gaps between us and spaces that the Lord abhors. So come forward and it draws the Lord's heart out, and we need to have his heart drawn out
00:35 -  this morning because I'm in pitiful personal condition and I don't know how to explain it but I'm completely, not completely, but strangely discombobulated. I'm just, I'm lurching.
00:49 -  I got out of bed lurching like the aged man I am, and either I got the best night's sleep last night that I've had in the longest time and my body's not used to it, or some strange forces unhappy with what is being sounded here are acting upon me.
01:08 -  I don't know what, but I'm trusting the Lord this morning. He says the message, the words in my heart, I don't know what it is, but I have some things here that I'm trusting the Lord to put together.
01:21 -  Oh, and we have light on the subject also this morning. Praise God. Be with my mouth, my God, may we hear your heart through it, bring this Lord into an
01:34 -  alignment with yourself, things as you see them, as you understand them, as you desire for them to be known, the things, my God, that shall shortly come to pass, for which we have little anticipation, break the powers of deception as the word of truth by the spirit
01:52 -  of truth goes forth, my God, and be deaf ear to our cries that this is too much for us, and altogether, my God, bring a joy in believing, and may something be transacted this morning as in these days that will be the difference of life and death for others, as well as the
02:13 -  issue of eternity, especially for the lost sheep of the House of Israel. We thank you and give you the praise for being God over all, and transcendent and powerful through every condition, my God, triumphant.
02:27 -  Bless your holy name forever, in Jesus' name, amen. Did you catch that prayer, that something will be spoken that will affect the issue of life or death, particularly of the lost sheep of the House of Israel, sounds like
02:44 -  the most ridiculous and extravagant prayer? Have we come to an hour historically where preaching and the proclamation of the word is more than the issue of biblical edification and the blessing of the saints, that the issues
03:00 -  of life and death are literally at stake, that we can anticipate an hour where even in this country, Jewish life will be threatened, pursued, harried, and that the difference between life and death may well be the condition of the believers in the land who both anticipate
03:22 -  such a scenario and are prepared to serve God in that time? Have we come to such an hour? It's unthinkable.
03:32 -  So we need to gird our loins, saints. We're dreamers, and there's something about our nature that does not want to consider hard things, and if the Church is the ground and pillar of the truth, that means that we
03:49 -  have to not only bear the truth that is painful, but even love it, or we ourselves will be incapacitated when it comes, according to God's Word, and will hardly be in a position to save others if we cannot ourselves stand in such an hour.
04:06 -  So I hope that doesn't chill you or strike an ominous note. In fact, we ought to rejoice for the possibilities of being co-participant with the Lord in these last days' things that we might be also co-heirs with Him eternally.
04:25 -  So bless God. Well, I started a very heavy theme last night on the Holocaust. I want to pick up just a few strands of it and see where the Lord will lead us this morning.
04:40 -  Maybe I'm already on that, because the issue of Israel, more than we ourselves have realized, is the issue of the Church. The Church's condition is the issue of the survival of Israel's remnant in the last days.
04:58 -  And I even ended last night by calling the Church to a prophetic stature, and that we need to sound a warning, and to be able to bring a word of a life-giving kind. And it's interesting that the two great prophets of doom, so-called, in times past, Ezekiel
05:21 -  and Jeremiah, who forewarned the time of calamity in their own generation, therefore called the prophets of doom, were also given the privilege of being the prophets of restoration. That the same ones who did not, what's the word, retract or hold back a hard and necessary
05:44 -  word of soon-coming judgment were also the ones given the privilege of sounding the word of an eventual and ultimate restoration and the glory. And that's perfectly in keeping with the wisdom of God.
05:58 -  If we're cowards in this age, we shall forfeit also the prospect of glory at the later time. So we must not withhold the things that are needful, because that earns for us the privilege of speaking a word of restoration later.
06:14 -  Now this is no small thing. I can show you, if I had all kinds of time and we need it, and Isaiah 35, maybe we just ought to turn to that.
06:24 -  You know what the problem has been for the church? We have spiritualized away the literal statements of God pertaining to Israel's judgment and Israel's restoration, because first of all, the church had no stomach for Israel to be
06:43 -  restored, wanting itself to be the exalted son, and clucking its tongue at those who have preceded them and saying that it's finished. You shot it, you blew it, your time came, you lost it.
06:56 -  We are now the Israel of God, and we will adopt and receive the promises and the glory. So the Gentile church, in its anti-Semitic mentality and disposition, did not want to even conceive that it will be a last day's restoration of Israel, and that therefore
07:13 -  the promises are crude to them who have become the Israel of God. In all fairness, I need to say that they were provoked to such an attitude against Jews, because we Jews are very provocative.
07:26 -  We were saying, you dumb, dumb goyim, you think that you can read our scripture and you don't even know Hebrew, and God says that we're going to be restored, and Israel and Jerusalem is going to be his capital and his sanctuary, and so there's something about
07:44 -  the tone of that, by a people who have been dispersed in judgment, saying in their diasporic places to the church in the same localities, da da da da da da. You know what, guys?
07:58 -  There is something about the Jew, God bless them, that constitutes an ultimate provocation to the Gentile church, and I have to say that the church has not come out of this with flying colors.
08:14 -  We have failed miserably this test, which God himself has calculated for our good. It's one thing to be beatific saints on a Saturday or a Sunday morning with nicely washed faces in the house of the Lord, but how will you do when Jews who have been uprooted by anti-Semitic
08:37 -  fury in the last days in Cleveland, and are no longer safe in the places that they had relished and cherished till now, will find themselves in your midst in the most ungainly temper and ungrateful for any hospitality that you extend at risk to your own life like
08:57 -  Corrie ten Boom, and see how you will take it then. And I'll tell you that if you think you're a saint who can bite your lips and hold down the resentment that rises up at their unkempt behavior toward you, and that you're doing
09:14 -  God's service in that, you will have missed it. Unless you show them the face of the Lord, the unconditional love of the Lord that cannot be provoked, we will have missed a final and historic moment for which all things are presently
09:30 -  being calculated and are tending. Can you follow a man like me? Well, that's a statement to your spirituality.
09:41 -  Okay, Isaiah 35, the wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them. Now, read this literally. Don't dismiss this as some kind of spiritualization that the wilderness is a metaphor speaking
09:58 -  for something else. It means literally a wilderness like La Porte, Minnesota, where I am. And why am I there?
10:06 -  Brooklyn boy makes good. I should be in some urban setting, Berkeley grad. What am I doing in the boondocks where the tourist guides can't even find La Porte?
10:21 -  But God knows where it is because he has planted us there for 21 years and has called us to establish a place of refuge for Jews in flight in a soon coming hour of Jewish extremity in this nation.
10:36 -  And it's only one of many such places presently being prepared in the wilderness of the nations. It may well be that you will be shuffling them from the Cleveland area to Minnesota or we will be bringing them down from Minnesota through Cleveland, I don't know what, in the
10:51 -  route that God will establish of flight and deliverance. I know that this sounds so melodramatic that we want to run from it. I have wanted to run from it.
11:04 -  I'm a man who despises sensationalism. This sounds like some cheap movie spectacular, but I want to tell you, dear saints, with everything that's in me, it is altogether and utterly true.
11:19 -  And there are many other Ben Israels already in this nation and elsewhere in the world. I have been on their property. God brings me to them.
11:26 -  They're not even on my schedule. By the most extraordinary means, I find myself in those places. And bringing a word to them who knew that they were to acquire this 80-acre property
11:37 -  and thought it was to be a place of retreat for tired ministers, and God knows we need it, and that I have to tell them, no, you're in the right place, but you don't yet understand the right reason.
11:50 -  And when I tell them, the word comes to them not as a suggestion, but as the word of the Lord. In prophetic fullness and authority, you can hear the proverbial pin drop.
12:03 -  And then in that solemn hush of God, people are not only hearing the word, they are transacting a mandate, receiving a mandate and a call of God, which may cost them their very lives. In one such recent time on the West Coast in the state of Washington, walking distance
12:23 -  from the Pacific Ocean, after that was over, some people came up to me and said, Art, will you pray with us? We're in the fishing business and we're ready to sell our fleet.
12:34 -  I said, sure. We took hands in a circle and we prayed. And when we finished praying, the man looked up who was also an elder in that fellowship
12:42 -  and he said to me, I don't think we'll sell, he said. I think we will update. I said, that's right.
12:48 -  You'll not be moving fish, but men. And I said, by the way, where do you keep your fleet harbored? He said, in Alaska, opposite the Bering Straits.
12:58 -  How's your geography this morning? One place of where you can virtually walk over from Siberia to America. And I can go on, Saints, because unbeknownst to them, but known to me, only one day's
13:13 -  journey south of where I was with them in Washington, where I was not supposed to be, it was not on my schedule, is another place which I do know and on whose ground I have stood prepared also for the same.
13:27 -  And so it's already physically in preparation. How distant then are we from the actuality if God is already physically and spiritually preparing a people to receive Jews in this condition?
13:42 -  As I said last night, anti-Semitism is escalating the world over. Instead of winning the sympathy of the Gentile communities around them, as in Buenos Aires when the Jewish community building was destroyed by a terrorist bombing and the seven-story
13:59 -  structure collapsed and 200 were killed instantly, resentment has occurred. And fear that if there should be another bombing in the residential area where the Jews have now acquired another property, that their own children will be threatened by that which
14:15 -  may come against Jews and who wants them. They are becoming our misfortune. And by the way, aren't they a cursed people anyway?
14:25 -  And wouldn't we do well to get them out from the midst of us? So the design is already taking shape by which they will become increasingly unwelcomed in every nation where they've had a relative degree of security, if not prosperity, in
14:43 -  the world. Because God says, I will sift them through all the nations. I will bring them through the wilderness of the nations and not so much as one kernel
14:54 -  shall fall to the ground. How much are we prepared for such an eventuality as this? How much does our flesh resist such a contemplation?
15:08 -  What will the conditions be in the world and in this very nation if Jews will be hated to such a degree that they can no longer remain safely in their communities in Cleveland and enjoy the prosperity that has been theirs till now?
15:25 -  It would have to be something like a Hitler time, like a fierce anti-Christ time when everything has been controverted and that the church itself, being also the people of God, will be threatened.
15:40 -  I wonder that it is that God has chosen Israel, even in her unbelief, to be for the church something of a weathervane and a time clock to align us with the reality of the last days. So the wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them and the desert shall rejoice
16:04 -  and blossom as the roses shall blossom abundantly and rejoice even with joy and singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon. They shall see the glory of the Lord and the excellency of our God.
16:16 -  They must see it. If they will not see it, they will not believe and they must see it in their extremity, in their unbelief, in their secular mindedness because it's going to be the most remarkable
16:29 -  demonstration of God in his supernatural power and glory that secular and rational Jews have ever been privileged to glimpse. You need to understand something of the depth and the tenacity, our guest believing that
16:46 -  resides in us as Jews. If you could read my first book, now out of print, Ben Israel, you'll see something of how far God has to go with unbelieving, cynical and God-rejecting Jewish men to bring them
17:00 -  to a place of understanding and faith. You'll wonder that Paul says in Romans 11, they are the enemies of the gospel for your sake.
17:11 -  It's not just that we are indifferent. We are hostile and therefore it's going to take an enormous demonstration, particularly at a time of affliction to demonstrate that God is in the midst of our calamity and that
17:27 -  nothing less than calamity and uprooting were sufficient to bring us to the knowledge of him. So desperate and deep was the condition of our unbelief.
17:39 -  Little wonder that I was saved not in California where I then lived, but in Jerusalem where I then came after 14 months of wending my way through the nations with a pack on my back as a hitchhiker looking for philosophical answers and being dealt with by God as I was
17:58 -  knocked about and moved and shaped and pushed and promoted from one locale to another and nation to nation. The Jews who are of the nations being sifted through the nations and being brought back
18:11 -  and finding the Lord who is calling me by name in the nation of our origin and of our birth is something of a preview of this last day's dealings of God with the remnant of us.
18:24 -  It would not be an exaggeration to say that your employment at that time is the whole purpose for your being and your salvation. I have been to some of these desert places and I want to tell you that they are desert.
18:40 -  They are so remote and so bereft of anything that I myself despaired though I was in a four wheel vehicle that we would come out alive. Why God has to bring Jews through wilderness, perhaps we can have some sense of what wilderness
18:57 -  means in being stripped to the bone. None of the accoutrements and the devices and the comforts of civilization are there. The things that keep us in the consideration of stock truth are ruthlessly removed.
19:13 -  It's man stripped to the bone in the wilderness of no amenity faced with the stark actuality of God, the threat of death being pursued and harassed and harried again in order to bring us to that face to face encounter with God that will either mean our eternal loss
19:36 -  or gain. As God says in Ezekiel 20, I will meet with you in the wilderness of the nations face to face and there you will come into the bond of my covenant and under the rod of my authority
19:50 -  but the rebels who transgress against me, them I will bring out of the nations wherein they have dwelled but I will not bring them into the land. You can count on it.
20:01 -  You're going to see the greatest attrition and loss of life that only a remnant will survive this final sifting process of God but they will constitute the redeemed of the Lord and the nation to whom their Messiah will return as the redeemed of God.
20:23 -  You want to know something saints? I had not a cotton picking thought to share this with you this morning. It was completely outside my consideration.
20:34 -  A brother who traveled with me said, oh it seemed that you know these things, it would be criminal for you to withhold it and merely to speak a biblical message. Not to say that this is not biblical but it's an urgent note that needs to be sounded and
20:50 -  the remarkable thing is that in the hearing of it and the receiving of it, it's not just the issue of Israel to which we are alerted, it's the issue of God. It's the issue of the faith, it's the issue of the church, it's the issue of the spirit
21:04 -  that unless the church be the church in its prophetic fullness, all people will perish. Because listen to this first to which we have come where all of a sudden the whole tenor of this chapter shifts and God now is addressing a particular people who are not themselves
21:24 -  the fleeing Jews and saying to them, strengthen ye the weak hands and confirm the feeble knees. The weak hands and the feeble knees are the Jews in distress but who is being addressed who is in a position to strengthen is the question that is raised.
21:43 -  Say to them that are of a fearful heart, be strong, fear not, behold your God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompense, he will come and save you. Are you Bible students, can you exegete the scriptures, can you draw out the meaning,
22:05 -  can you understand what's being spoken here? Two groups are being identified, those that are feeble and weak to whom a word needs to of a particular kind, a particular vigor, a particular resonance of truth that is more
22:21 -  than wishful thinking, that is more than a little pathetic bleat but needs to be a resounding prophetic word, your God will come and he will save you but if your Christian life is feeble and you yourself have never been stretched in extremity and have not known the saving
22:41 -  power of God out of your own disabilities and hang ups, what word can you speak to those in distress who have never known them that will be a saving word? I want to say with complete assurance that unless my kinsmen hear that word before their
23:01 -  Lord comes to save them, they will not be there to be saved because they will be stretched to such a place of breaking and such, I don't have a word for it, beside themselves, so weak, I mean how many Jews are in condition for a wilderness trek? They'll be stretched
23:22 -  out, we're spoiled, we're soft, this is beside us, this is something we can't even consider, it's unthinkable, it's beyond our capacity to grasp and to contemplate, let alone to survive in, that unless a word comes that is more than just a pat on the back or wishful
23:40 -  thinking or a hopeful suggestion but a word that in the hearing of it brings strength, strengthens the weak hands and the feeble knees and enlarges the heart and gives stamina, we will not make it until the time and place in which the Lord himself will save us.
24:01 -  We're not used to speaking words like that, we're not used to hearing words like that and what I'm describing to you is the prophetic word. The prophetic word is not informational, the prophetic word is even beyond inspiration, the prophetic word, the thing that distinguishes
24:22 -  it from all other words is that it constitutes an event in the life that hears it. And when that word says be strengthened or fear not, fear dissipates, strength comes, the word itself is the saving event. Read the rest of this chapter at your leisure,
24:48 -  it's so juicy, I hate to rush it, I've got so many other things to say but look what happens right at the hearing of that word in verse 5, then the word has come, then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, what a word that is, would the God who had preachers
25:04 -  like that, that would open our blind eyes and if in fact our eyes are not opened first neither shall theirs, their blind eyes shall be opened and the ears of the deaf shall be unstuck, what a word. Then shall the lame man leap as a heart and the tongue of the
25:22 -  dumb sing for in the wilderness shall waters break out and streams in the desert both spiritually and literally, the parched ground shall become a pool and the thirsty land springs of water and the habitation of dragons will each lay shall be grass with weeds and brushes and
25:37 -  a highway shall be there away and shall be called the way of holiness, it is in process right now saints, from northern Canada right to Mexico and through it, it's the route that I know and I'm sure that there are others because I've seen them already in Europe,
25:52 -  it'll be the highway of holiness constructed by God and my son David says to me, daddy said you know all these things and God has made you pivotal and you're a linkage with all these things, why don't you send out a circular letter and organize it, I said that's
26:09 -  the last thing to be done, there must not even be a hint of human organization in this because if there's one thing that we Jews can sniff out who are masters at organization is human arrangement, what our Jewish people need to see is the masterpiece of the Holy
26:26 -  Spirit, an intricate linkage from place to place and from people to people established by the Spirit of God face to face relationally in confidence and trust by the Spirit in tested relationships over a period of time, that's why this brother needed to hear me in 1970
26:45 -  place and here we are 25 years later still in relationship acknowledging the Word of God because the day will come when I say Walter they'll be at your door tomorrow and Walter will say okay, no ifs, ands, buts, no whys, no hows, no explanations needed because there's
27:02 -  a confidence and a trust that has been established in the realm of Spirit but for those who are not in that realm and need human assurances we will just be outside the providence and the use of God, you know what I'm saying saints, that we need to become saints, it's time to
27:24 -  put our games away and our debilitating things and our hang ups and the things that have kept us in limbo and get with it and be the people of God, we've got a thing coming that's life and death and if we are not there to be what we need to be they will perish and
27:43 -  it's more even than their survival that's at stake and I will give an A for the day to anyone in the congregation who knows what the issue is that is even greater than Israel's survival but that if Israel does not survive this greater issue cannot be affected, what
28:02 -  is the greater thing that is contingent upon Israel's survival and restoration to the land as the redeemed of the Lord, the kingdom of God because the king himself it says in Acts 321 is pent up or contained in the heavens waiting for the restoration, the great word
28:24 -  of all things spoken by the prophets like Isaiah 35, like Ezekiel 20, like Amos 9, waiting for the restoration of all things spoken by the prophets since the world began. For the word of the Lord shall go forth, the Lord the Lord out of Zion and the word of the Lord
28:47 -  out of Jerusalem to all nations who shall study war no more and beat their swords into plowshares and spears into putting hooks. In fact I would say by and large the church is millennially ignorant and indifferent, it does not seek for or look for the Lord's
29:06 -  coming except as an escape but not the issue of his glory and his kingdom, it's a very different looking and a very different expecting and it's not going to come automatically, he has contained himself, isn't that remarkable? Talk about the humility of God, the king who
29:25 -  has been despised and rejected and over whose cross in three languages in a mocking way Jesus of Nazareth the king of the Jews waiting to return to the same city and establish his theocracy from the very place where he was humiliated and yet he has contained himself
29:43 -  waiting for a restoration that has to come principally through the office of the church of the last days who can speak to Israel in its infirmity, be strong your God will come, he will deliver and save you, then the eyes of the blind shall be opened. Are we capable
30:04 -  of speaking such a word? You know the real question is are we willing to give ourselves to the process of God, I should say the process sees of God by which we can speak such a word that our word and our being is one thing, that our character and our life is consistent
30:26 -  with our word and that's what gives it veracity, stature, depth, power, authority to become an event and not just an instruction, in fact if you are not hearing that kind of word now we don't go any further, if this is only a suggestion or a kind of preaching eloquence
30:49 -  or inspiration and is itself not an event that causes faith in you to believe these things by the hearing of these words then we're stymied right at this point, little wonder that I wake up lurching, little wonder that I'm so weak and disoriented that I can
31:10 -  barely stagger out of the bedroom and sitting there waiting to be called and not knowing what to say because this mystery is so great, so ultimate, so having to do with the eternal glory of God that he will not entrust it to any flesh at all, he'll not entrust it to
31:32 -  Art Katz's Berkeley educated flesh but to his weakness and his dependency on the same God who is saving him even now to bring these words to demonstrate that in your weakness and in your infirmity, in your feeling overwhelmed, in your lurching, in your staggering and this
31:54 -  is too much for me, you will experience the same life and the same power and the same enablement for of him and through him and to him are all things to whom alone be glory forever. If we knew what is writing on this morning's service and speaking, if we knew
32:17 -  the enormity of the stakes that are at issue right with the speaking, if we knew what it is that God is transacting, what is before him now in the lives of saints in this room and who will be hearing this tape, you know what we would have to say with Paul? Who is
32:38 -  sufficient for these things? How would you like to lurch and be disoriented and discombobulated and feeling weak and disoriented and trust God in that place? It's not something to which the flesh is disposed but it's called faith. It's called the love of God. It's called the
33:06 -  jealousy for his glory and honor. It's a putting away of confidence in man and in his strength and in his ability that he might be all in all. This is more than yarmulkes and talesim and shtiklach and yurishkite and every kind of thing that we thought was needed to adorn
33:23 -  the church and to bring the missing dimension. The missing dimension is prophetic and apostolic authenticity and that does not come cheaply. It comes at the cross and because we have circumvented that cross and chosen easier and other ways, we're in the condition that
33:46 -  we are not able to speak a word of this kind and something has got to be made up quickly because these things that I'm describing are at the door and shall shortly come to pass. So a highway shall be there, verse 8, it should be called the way of holiness. The unclean
34:08 -  shall not pass over, it shall be for those the wayfaring men, the foo shall not err therein, no lion shall be there, nor any ravenous Nazi-like anti-Semitic beast shall go up thereon, it shall not be found there and the redeemed shall walk there and the redeemed of the Lord
34:26 -  shall return and come to Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their heads. They shall obtain joy and gladness and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. And so the redeemed of the Lord shall return and come with singing unto Zion and everlasting joy shall be upon
34:46 -  their heads. What does it say about? They shall attain gladness and joy and mourning and sighing shall flee away. Now listen guys, there has never been an hour where we have been required more to be students of the word exegetes, drawing out its meaning as
35:18 -  I've said. What does it mean when it says and mourning and sighing shall flee away and everlasting joy shall be upon their heads? Everlasting means that what has happened to them now is something that they carry into their millennial future. What does mourning
35:36 -  and sighing mean? The last experience of world Jewry, its final trial, its final anguish, its final suffering, its final holocaust, a mourning and sighing. Maybe a mourning and sighing of so desperate a kind because even their hope for Israel, the nation which was
35:55 -  established in 1948, will be itself devastated and they will be compelled to flee into the nations that even that hope will be taken from them in order to strip them of every last confidence of their own making that they might find him alone who is their salvation.
36:17 -  It's a suras, you know that word trouble beyond all describing called in Jeremiah the time of Jacob's trouble and as I said last night quoting from it, if God does not cut it short no flesh would survive and there has not been a time like it ever before nor ever since
36:37 -  which means it will exceed the Hitler time. Are we prepared for that? Are we still dreamers? Are we vacuous? Are we vain? Are we full of imaginings? Are we taking pot shots at the speaker? Are we finding fault? We don't like his face, his accent, his tone. We're still
36:58 -  at that level, still cotton picking, still finding little wisps of something imagined or real to offend us that we're going elsewhere. When are we going to get with it and set our roots and set our heels and be God's people because I'll tell you the saints, God is not
37:16 -  calling for individual virtuosos who shall speak to Israel in their wilderness flight but to a people who are corporate and yet speak as with one voice or will have no prophetic power at all. The issue of Israel's survival which is the issue of the Lord's coming and
37:38 -  the issue of his kingdom and his rule is the issue of the church, the church of the last days that must be as glorious in its conclusion as it was in its inception and we are its raw material. What are we willing for? What can we say to the Lord this morning? In the
38:00 -  spirit of Lord I'm so far removed from what Art is describing. I don't know that I could even bear to see such an hour let alone to participate. What then shall we say? Lord whatever it takes to move me from where I presently am so caught up in my own subjectivities,
38:20 -  my moods, my risings and fallings so easily bruised, so easily pushed out of shape with a wrong look let alone a word, I'm asking you to deal with me. I'm inviting the work of the cross. I want you to go right to the root of my own being, strip me. If Israel
38:37 -  is going to be stripped in order to be fitted for its millennial destiny what then do you first require of the church? And I'll tell you what, God will take you at your word. You know what we can do this morning? We can turn a sermon into an event by saying yes
38:56 -  Lord, whatever it takes to fit me to be participant in such a conclusion of the age as this as it pertains to Israel's survival, the remnant of Israel, its return and restoration, your coming, your kingdom and your glory I am willing because I don't want to have egg on my face
39:20 -  in the day of eternity and find that I cannot hear those gracious words well done good and faithful servant. I don't want to sleep a thousand years longer while others are having the privilege and the joy of being participant in establishing the configuration of your
39:35 -  kingdom who has been fitted to rule and to reign with you because they have received the preparation in this life for that kind of maturity and service. The issue of our eternity is at stake as well as it is. So, shall we pray for this? Pray for the church
40:08 -  of Yeshua HaMashiach worldwide for God says I will sift you through all nations. I will sift you through all nations. Do you know why? It's not only Israel that's being sifted. It's the nations themselves and the church within the nations in the same process of
40:27 -  sifting that God might identify not only the true Israel that the remnant that's to be restored but the true church that is willing for the suffering, the fear, the prospect of loss of life and what kind of church will count it all privilege even if that be required
40:48 -  for greater will be their crown and their glory eternally. That's the faith and we're being recalled to it. So Lord Jesus head over the church and soon coming king and the holy one of Israel we bow before you this morning Lord apologetically.
41:12 -  We're so far removed from the condition that ought to be our seeing that we're so close to this time and to this eventuality. We have been deceived my God. We have been suckered in. We have given ourselves over. We have chosen. We have desired near Sunday Christianity
41:31 -  even if it's conducted on Saturday. All we wanted was a cycle of services that we could attend. We were not willing for apostolic call, for apostolic sacrifice, for prophetic use because we sense that that is the way of suffering. But we're grateful that you're
41:53 -  not letting us go. We're grateful that you're jealous over us. We're grateful for a genius that sees not only the restoration of Israel but the transfiguration of the church in the very process of being to Jews what we alone can and must be. That both things are accomplished
42:10 -  in the same stroke by the genius of God. Oh the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God who has been his counselor. So Lord we bow before that wisdom and we say thank you for saving us out of mediocrity, out of mere successions of services, for calling
42:29 -  us for an involvement, a place, a stature for which we shall be eternally grateful. And we're saying to you this morning, whatever it takes, fit us for it. Whatever it takes, turn up the juice, tighten the screws, require from us. But God forbid that we should be
42:50 -  ashamed in the day of eternity to have fallen short of your glory and to have been satisfied with less than your intention. So in Jesus name as the minister of this word that I had not intended who will stand before the Lord this morning solemnly in the most significant
43:07 -  standing so as to say by this standing I agree with this prayer and I am welcoming whatever it takes to fit me to be participant in your purpose in these last days in Jesus name. Don't complain to me when you see me next. Since the day I stood that Saturday morning
43:32 -  everything is broken loose, my job, my body, my this, my that, my marriage, my health, the air has gone out of my tires and my neighbors, the Lord knows what to employ. May we receive it as coming from his hand and not being mere happenstance but calculated to obtain the
43:52 -  maturity and sonship that makes a prophetic people prophetic and gives their words an authority that constitutes an event for those who hear it, who if they had not hear it heard it would otherwise have perished. Lord bless these children who have stood this morning.
44:13 -  You know them and you know them by name. You have brought everyone here whether by curiosity or for whatever motive to bring them to a place of hearing and to a place of free and voluntary willing response and I am asking you Lord that if I have spoken your word despite
44:33 -  any intention of my own to be elsewhere this morning that you would seal them in this standing. You would take note of them. You know them by name and they are asking for it to bring a release of things that waited for their welcoming because this is entirely voluntary.
44:52 -  This is not some conscripted army that is murmuring against it. These are a people who choose to be chosen. Okay Lord seal them by name. Everyone and if we don't see each other before in the day of eternity when we will have received the crown may we rush into each
45:11 -  other's arms and remember that Saturday morning when we stood before the most high and said Lord whatever it takes. Hallelujah. Seal it. Perform the glories of your will and we thank you for the privilege of the high call in Christ Jesus. Break us out of our immaturities
45:34 -  my God. Wean us from ungainly dependencies. Bring us to be a people together corporate not that a conglomerate of individualities. A church that is a church indeed that is one that sees with one eye and one agreement and one heart and one soul and speaks the word
45:55 -  together that is effectual. Bless your leaders. Bless the raunters of your congregations everywhere. The men who take responsibility. The elders who have had to suffer the guff and yet remain faithful. I bless them in Jesus' holy name with a heavenly blessing and fresh encouragement
46:15 -  from at high by the Spirit of God. Give them my God vistas and enlargement of seeing and make their own words to resonate with the power of your life. Break every last fear of man and may they be utterly single-eyed toward you to bring my God what is needful
46:34 -  to be to your people what they must. Words that we need to hear from them that don't spare us and call us to reminder of the things for which we have stood. Bless us together Lord. Thank you for the privilege of such an hour, such a call, such a prospect, such
46:54 -  a glory. Seal it now. Perform it. Send us from this building with rejoicing in our hearts. Sombor. More serious than ever before but walking with a little different gait and a different little look in our face and our eyes because something has come into our being
47:12 -  that we cannot again put away and yet it does not depress us but gives us cause for joy. We thank you Lord. Bless your holy name. Be the Lord over all for of you and through you and to you are all things. The God of resurrection whose resurrection power and life is available
47:34 -  to us or we could not succeed in such a call. To you be the glory in Jesus name and God's people said amen, amen and amen.