The Eternal Perspective 1

00:00 -  I have to say that everyone knows how it is, that when you read something familiar and then there comes a moment when the familiar becomes new, when all of a sudden a veil comes off and you blink your eyes and you see what you've not seen, that you've gone over that
00:20 -  text many times. That's what's happened to me with this, not to remember there, and I hope that the same kind of discovery and revelation will come to you because it was, for me, revolutionary.
00:31 -  It has affected every aspect of my faith. Mainly what it has done is to unveil the significance and the meaning of eternity. And I feel that this has been a last dimension of Christian understanding.
00:48 -  It's not something that we are happy to acknowledge, but we do not anticipate the practical significance of until death, but eternity in the way that God intended it, mainly to affect every present consideration.
01:04 -  But the eternity is not taken into the now. We are not considering it in the way that God intends. So here's a way in which we can begin to see how the patriarchal fathers and all of
01:19 -  the giants of the faith live in such a conscious sense of the things that are eternal, that are transfigured for a present living, and made them the men of faith. So let's look at Hebrews 11 here, verse 8,
01:37 -  When he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed and he went out, not knowing whether he went, by faith he sojourned in the land of promises in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the ores
01:56 -  with him of the same promise, for he looked for a city which had foundations whose builder and maker is God. Verse 13, These all abide in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them
02:10 -  of thy earth, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed them, and confessed that there were strangers and pilgrims on the earth, for they that say such things declare plainly that they seek the country.
02:24 -  The verse that we want to focus in on would be, in verse 8, the word after. A place which he should after receive for an inheritance, and though he was in the land of promise, verse 9, it was yet for him a strange country.
02:48 -  Have you ever seen that? How can that be? That he was in the place of God's intention, that it was not yet the land of promise, it
02:59 -  was then a strange country. It was after to become an inheritance. When is the after?
03:09 -  In the life to come. Abraham is the preeminent man of the resurrection, and his whole life is lived in the expectation of the fulfillment of it, after.
03:25 -  This is a greatly profound and different emphasis than that which characterizes modern living, where in contemporary secular living everything is now. This life, this world oriented.
03:42 -  True faith has its emphasis and orientation in the thing that comes after as an inheritance in the life to come. Now I know that's going to sound maybe evil in your hearing.
03:58 -  It sounds like something out of the Middle Ages, where you would almost think that this life is like a veil of tears and some preparatory thing for the life to come that's eternal, which the world tries to be put to us as cop-out.
04:12 -  The fact of the matter is that is a perfectly biblical view. We have been sold a bill of goods which is a lie. It has therefore occasioned in us such distortion in our way of living and our perception of
04:30 -  value that I couldn't even begin to describe. You will not be Abrahamic and you will not be a man or woman of faith until you take eternity into your deepest consideration and recognize that this life is preeminently a
04:47 -  preparation for that. Can we be more fundamental than this? Can you understand that this emphasis turns the word on its dear?
05:00 -  The London of the apostles was said to turn the word upside down. I think it's fair to say every value that the word celebrates as right and as true is unmistakably a lie.
05:14 -  The whole word lies in the wicked one who is the father of lies and the greatest success that he has had is to rob mankind and even the church of the sense and the reality and the truth of eternity.
05:30 -  This needs to be restored. It's central to the faith and it will affect all your seeing and all your life and all your service.
05:42 -  And what it will do to you is what it did to Abraham. It will make your present life as a pilgrim, stranger and sojourner in the earth. You're looking for something that is future, but the very looking for that future profoundly
06:01 -  affects how you are now presently walking, what you will do. So, isn't it interesting that verse 13 says these all died in faith? Not out of the faith, they died in the faith, not having received the promises.
06:21 -  What kind of a God is that who has made promises that are central to believing and not to have given them or answered them in the lifetime of these great giants of faith? Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, the heirs of the promise with him, and all others of that same faith.
06:42 -  This whole chapter on the giants of the faith ends in verse 40, verse 39. These all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise. Have you ever seen that before?
06:58 -  Some things are missed here. Either they had another kind of faith contrary to what is being celebrated today, because the faith that we're encouraged to possess is the one that obtains a Cadillac now,
07:14 -  has a payoff now, or else you're out of the faith. Evidently their faith did not receive the promise. These all died not having received the promise.
07:26 -  It wasn't here or there or one or two, or God was looking the other way. Without exception, every single giant of faith died without having received the promise. So being the students of scripture that you are, what would you conclude?
07:43 -  We need to understand, whatever the promises that would come to that in a moment, they did not receive it. That's the point I want to focus in on. Was God defunct?
07:52 -  Is he a God who cannot keep us? Whose promises are they, after all? They're the promises of God.
07:59 -  Is he not a God who honors his word? How then did he fail to honor his word, and yet they died in faith? What does that mean?
08:07 -  We've got to understand what that means. It's a key to something remarkably defunct. If it was not a promise that was ever intended to be fulfilled in their natural lifetime,
08:20 -  and that to be in the faith means that you understand that, and that the real fullness of your faith and its realization comes in the internal future. That is a totally different way of understanding what it is to which we are called.
08:38 -  It changes your whole perspective. Then this then must be prefabricated, this life. That then is the fulfillment, the gratification and the meaning.
08:49 -  That's the inheritance that comes after. Now we are a now generation. Everything in the whole temper of our civilization is calculated for immediate gratification.
09:05 -  If you begin to understand what I'm saying, you'll have a new appreciation when you come across words in the scripture like patience, the patience of the saints, the forbearance, waiting, the things that come after.
09:21 -  This is a different kind of requirement of character and a different kind of trust. Can you die not having received a promise? Totally assured that you'll be raised up in resurrection to the fulfillment of it.
09:40 -  And you are so assured of that resurrection and that fulfillment that you can confidently walk in this life with absolute assurance of that fulfillment. You do not need to be gratified now.
09:55 -  You don't need the payout now. You'll receive it as an inheritance after. There's a whole different mentality, a whole different expectation and a whole different requirement.
10:12 -  Okay, now let's just take a look at the word promise. It'll be a whole study in itself. I'm just going to make a suggestion about it. That I have an apocalyptic and theocratic view of the setting for the chapter on the viewers of the faith.
10:33 -  That we need to understand and to embrace. The promise has got to do with the establishment of specific statements God has made to the patriarchal fathers of the faith, like David,
10:48 -  that on his throne would be seated a descendant from his minds who will rule over the house of Israel forever. You need to come into a Hebraic mentality. That was reflected, for example, in the disciples who were with Jesus in his resurrection
11:05 -  when he spoke to them for 40 days on the things pertaining to the Kingdom of God. I want to say, Saints, that we have lost the sense of eternity in the exact proportion as we have lost or never understood the issue of the Kingdom.
11:22 -  The Kingdom for us has very connotations. It's nice. It's suggestive. That the Kingdom of God is within you. Yes, there's a certain value way of looking at it. But we have lost the sense of the Kingdom as a theocratic reality.
11:39 -  The Kingdom is the political rule of God in the earth. When the law shall go forth out of Zion and the word of the Lord out of Jerusalem. Now, I know that that does not mean much to us as modern, Western, secular Saints.
11:56 -  But it has meant a great deal to generations of Jews who live and waited for the fulfillment of that promise. And that's why they said to Jesus, is it time now to establish the Kingdom for Israel? They had lived so long in shame, so long in alienation from God,
12:14 -  so long divorced from their Davidic origins that is it now time to restore the Kingdom? This is not some narrow nationalistic desire that we too are going to show ourselves. It's their promise. And it's our promise to the degree that we have ended the Commonwealth of Israel
12:35 -  who were once far off and without God and without hope in the world. Even the proclamation of what I'm about requires so manifestly the Spirit of God for what we are about to explain. This work of restoration is humanly exhausting.
13:04 -  It requires the heavens to be opened and for God to implant a sense of the things that pertain to his Kingdom and to his glory which are lost to us as reality and as expectation. And that's why this chapter needs to be set in that context.
13:25 -  He was looking for a city whose maker is God is another statement of the theocratic Kingdom that Jerusalem that comes down from above out of which the law shall go forth and the word of the Lord. That is the issue of God's glory.
13:50 -  The issue of God's Kingdom as a ruling over his creation is the issue of God's glory all the more when it takes place in the literal land of promise and in the capital of that land which is Jerusalem the city of peace and within that city the holy hill of Zion.
14:13 -  You see I'm speaking to you out of a whole eschatological that means things pertaining to the end apocalyptic to the conclusion of the age, theocratic view of the faith. It's a very large framework and if we don't have it then we can speak of these verses in a subjective and personal way
14:34 -  that has a meaning that is not the full meaning. To desire Jesus and to long for his appearing is not some kind of palpitation in a kind of emotional way that you could have that dimension.
14:49 -  For me it's the Lord coming to be vindicated in the very place where he was publicly humiliated and where they put a sign up all those seven three languages Jesus the Magical King of the Jews as Mark and gave him a crown of thorns and a robe in that very place to establish his rule over his own creation.
15:16 -  It's not loving God abstractly, it's loving God in the sense of desiring to see the fulfillment of all that is likely his and which has been so long denied him. And with that comes a whole view of the faith and maybe this will be true for us in these days
15:35 -  the whole introduction of the theme of Israel in the context that I'm now describing. Not that shouldn't they have their own nation after they have it coming with how long they've suffered in exile and they go with the prophets and blah blah blah and they do have it.
15:52 -  The restoration of Israel has been necessary preliminary to the coming of Israel's King and the King of all creation. That he cannot rule from a Jerusalem whose nation is not yet reconciled to him so that the issue of Israel's reconciliation and restoration is the key to his own coming and to his own glory.
16:18 -  I'll say this again now many times in the time that's left for us. I'm just introducing something, I'm giving you a theocratic view in which Israel's restoration is critical and as we'll talk about it, the Church's role in that restoration
16:35 -  that the King might come. Acts 3.21, Jesus is pent up in the heavens, contained waiting for the restoration of all things spoken by the prophets since the world began.
16:52 -  We're talking about the things that will release a Jesus pent up in the heavens to actually be the ruler over his creation in the earth. And the one prayer that Jesus did was pray this,
17:06 -  thy kingdom come on earth as it is in heaven. And we have, what shall I say, spiritualized these things and we've not understood them in God's literal intent.
17:22 -  But Abraham understood it literally. The gospel that was preached unto Abraham is the one that I'm now trying to communicate. It contains a promise of restoration, of God's glory being established and revealed
17:38 -  through his rule over a creation that has long rejected him and distorted and destroyed the image of God and man and steeped the earth in blood and everything vile and perverse.
17:56 -  This was the hope, this was the promise for which men waited. This hope for men that did not receive it in their lifetime and yet did not die murmuring and disappointed in how come and where is God.
18:11 -  These all died not having received the promise. Now, doesn't that then bring into another focus the invisible cloud of witnesses who are not yet complete without us, which is mentioned in this very context and connection.
18:31 -  We are moving towards something to which they have already sacrificed and given themselves but will not be obtained independent of us. They're waiting for the punch line, they're waiting for the fulfillment
18:43 -  and we are the last days actors and I'm going to speak about this maybe tomorrow. Their being around us invisibly does not mean that they are inert and that they do not contribute something by their presence.
18:57 -  They are a vital factor and bring, in my opinion, an ingredient of a very particular kind to facilitate the conclusion of the age through us. I'm opening something here, a whole vista of the faith, almost like mystery,
19:16 -  of things that have preceded us and things that are future that affect our present. So we need to take this into our deepest consideration. The key to what is eternal is millennial.
19:32 -  The Lord gave me that somewhere this morning between 5 and 6, that phrase. The entry to eternity is the millennium. And the word millennium and its meaning is equally lost to the present day church.
19:46 -  It has only the vaguest connotations. There is no living, urgent expectancy of an actual millennial rule. Millennium is thousand, the thousand year rule of Christ.
20:00 -  Doesn't mean it ends with the thousand year. If that's when Satan is allowed up out of the pit for one last time, does his final mischief and seeking once again to turn the nations against God,
20:10 -  a final catastrophic defeat, where God himself destroys those nations that rise up against him and Satan and his angels are eternally cast into the lake of fire.
20:25 -  But the government continues. The rule of God continues. So I beseech you, and I beseech the help of God,
20:35 -  to birth in us a millennial expectation. How do we purport to be looking for him and wanting to be with him and seeing him who is invisible and have not a lack of concern or awareness
20:52 -  of what it will be that eternally glorifies him? This is a little bit of what I'm trying to express here today, and I just let it rest at that.
21:01 -  In other words, I'm uncomfortable with fascination for Jesus and the love of him and his own person. That somehow does not also take into consideration the things that will eternally glorify him.
21:15 -  And that's why both things are mentioned in the same chapter. Promises. And verse 13,
21:27 -  not having received the promises but having seen them afar and were persuaded of them and embraced them, something pure as against seeing him who is invisible, something singular.
21:41 -  Do you know what I mean? Both things are true. It's not pitting one against the other.
21:47 -  Whether you're going to opt for the kingdom and the promises pertaining to the millennial rule of Christ or him and his own person.
21:56 -  It's like pitting his rewards. You know, as we said yesterday, God's not divided against himself. And I'm appealing for you to see the issue of the Lord and his coming
22:07 -  and seeing him who is invisible in the context of what his coming means. The issue of his glory forever. No accident that Romans 11, which is the great treatise of Paul
22:21 -  on the mystery of Israel and the church, ends with this great basology of praise that breaks through the limitations of language. All the debts of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God,
22:33 -  whose been his counselor, his first, given them shall be given to them. Paul was going haywire here. What is he seeing?
22:39 -  He's seeing something much more than Israel's restoration. He's seeing the church transfigured in the process of being God's agent for that transformation.
22:48 -  He says, for of him and through him and through him are all things to whom be glory forever. The issues are worked out and enacted in the last days.
23:01 -  But when they are completed, history is completed. And we move out of the dispensation of history and the times of the Gentiles and into the millennial and eternal realm.
23:15 -  The thing that comes after. That's where very few endure till the end will be saved. And I think that many are not enduring because they do not see the end.
23:29 -  They do not expect the end. They do not desire the end. And in that company I would include Jimmy Starbuck.
23:37 -  And men like that, great evangelists who have a narrow, this-world focus and have not seen the faith in the eschatological, apocalyptic and theocratic setting that God intends that we would all see it as normative.
23:55 -  That's what the word promise refers to. And if you'll check out the references, you'll see it turns you back to 2 Chronicles 7 and other such references where God has made
24:07 -  tabamental promises to Israel that in the last days I will restore, I will bring back, I will establish, I will set a king over you, even David, who will rule over the house of Israel forever.
24:21 -  See, the issue of eternity is introduced at the end of the age with the issue of Israel. This heightens everything that we are about.
24:35 -  It adds a dimension to what we are about that is the dimension that makes us to endure and to overcome. We're touching the issues of eternity and God's glory forever.
24:50 -  It's going to be performed in time, but once it comes in, it is eternally abiding. And I'll tell you for that, a man could be beside himself. There are two things for that that he would not have done
25:04 -  And if it's just something that's affecting the course of this present moment, we need to have eternity restored to our deepest consciousness and understanding and be a people who can live now in the anticipation of it.
25:22 -  In fact, I want to say that that was the biblical formula for true living. Look, for example, in chapter 10 of Hebrews, Paul reviewing his apostolic life in verse 34,
25:39 -  You had compassion of me and my bonds, and took care for me this forming of your goods, knowing in yourselves that you had in heaven a better and an enduring substance. Cast not away, therefore, to that we first, that verse we just read,
25:57 -  your confidence, which hath great recompense of reward. 34 and 35 of chapter 10. We will be there just contemplating those two verses for the rest of the morning.
26:11 -  Do you understand why we've been doing basic training up till now? Why I've taken such pains to encourage how to examine the scriptures, how to borrow in, how to draw out the meaning,
26:25 -  that now when we come to these verses, we can apply that ability. So what is Paul celebrating in 34 and 35? People who took joyfully this forming of their goods,
26:42 -  knowing in themselves that they had in heaven a better and an enduring substance. What does it mean, enduring? What made it better? It does not fade away. It's eternal.
26:59 -  Now what is the practical implication? You see, is God speaking about some esoteric, philocontish kind of faith where you walk over eggshells?
27:09 -  Does this have a nuts and bolts application? I would say that heaven is eminently the most practical subject in the world. And what does the world say?
27:19 -  If you're heavenly minded, you have no earthly good. Exactly the reverse of what's true. I would say unless you're heavenly minded, you have no earthly good.
27:27 -  There is no one more heavenly minded than Paul. He saw the things that were invisible and eternal, and he saw them in such a way that it made his present and afflictions both momentary and life.
27:40 -  Unless there is an effect of your seeing of things eternal that affects your present, you have not yet seen. And if we want to do anything, we want to do this.
27:52 -  We want to disabuse ourselves from thinking that we have taken hold of the faith merely because we can recite it verbally. Until you can rejoice when your goods are stripped of you, you have not yet seen.
28:08 -  But let's look at that. We're returning the hermeneutical key here. Hermeneutical means a principle of interpretation.
28:17 -  That once you have inserted the issue of eternity in the theocratic sense of the coming kingdom and the millennial rule and the eternal glory, the whole Bible changes. Everything changes.
28:30 -  I didn't see that. Wow. As even the meaning of faith is going to change for you today.
28:36 -  There's something we're going to communicate today that we're sure what faith is in God's biblical intention as Abraham knew it and others also who died not having received the reward. Without murmuring, without complaining, they never expected it in this life.
28:56 -  When you become heavenly minded, you're a giant in the end. You work through the world and have complete disdain of the kinds of things which meant saliva and pant hoping to get it now.
29:09 -  It's like one of the best factors. You're so infused, you've been so taken up with the view of the eternal things to come but the things of this world.
29:18 -  And I want to say practically speaking, that is God's greatest condition for last days temptation, lust and falling. Those that subscribe to false doctrine, that become apostate, that say where is the hope of this coming are those who have succumbed to earthly lusts,
29:38 -  that have corrected their doctrine and their expectations. This hold of eternity will bring a dimension of ability to shun and resist the blandishness and the temptations of the world as nothing else is calculated to perform it.
29:55 -  It's eminently fathomless. And yet, it's enormously lusty and that's a paradox of the faith. And that's what I'm saying to you.
30:06 -  Unless we have internalized this and taken it into our spirits in such a way as to joyfully take the stripping of our goods, we have not yet made hold of it. So let's look at that in 34 and 35.
30:21 -  And took joyfully the stripping of your goods. Now, I have to say this in all fairness, if you're going to take eternity seriously, you're going to make yourself a candidate to have your goods stripped.
30:38 -  Nothing more threatens the principalities and the powers of the air than those who have seen and have taken to heart the eternal dimension of the day. You are a pantheist.
30:54 -  You have no consequence. The devil will run in your face. They'll say, Jesus I know and Paul I know.
30:59 -  But the church itself will say, who? Until you come to this. Because this opens the whole perception, the millennial reign,
31:08 -  the very thing that the powers of darkness hate with a passion. Why do you think they're going to be exterminating the Jews in the last days? Why do you think there will be a worldwide persecution of Jews?
31:22 -  Because unless this people is restored to their land and their nation and to their God, the Lord cannot be released from heaven, be king. So who then will be king?
31:35 -  They will. The rulers of this world, the kings of this world and the rulers take threat against God and against his amendment and say,
31:47 -  we will cast off their bonds from us for we will not have him to rule over us. But he holds them in disdain and contempt. He said, I will set my king on the holy hill of Zion.
32:01 -  What have I just quoted? Psalm 2. One of the most profound bureaucratic statements in all scripture
32:10 -  that shows that is pitted at the heart of last days controversy. Really like nothing you can ever imagine. Have you ever heard of a politician really giving up his office?
32:26 -  It's the scandal of American politics that a man can be in Congress for 30 to 40 years and never be unseated. It becomes his lifetime possession.
32:36 -  He's known how to pay off this one and that one and he ensures himself incumbency in office cycle after cycle after cycle. Power is corrupting and the powers themselves are corrupt
32:52 -  and they are the effective Gods of this world. And they don't want to give it up. When must they give it up?
33:02 -  When the king comes. When does he come? When the promises are fulfilled that he has made
33:10 -  to those who have believed for them and have God expecting them and will rep receive them in the resurrection. Even the resurrection and the expectation of resurrection
33:27 -  is as distant for us as millennium, as eternity, as glory. These are all fallen into the realm of abstraction. But it was not so for the early church.
33:41 -  Isn't that remarkable? The church of 2,000 years ago had a much more profound sense of the imminent coming of the work.
33:49 -  The judge was at the door. Thy kingdom come, be found blameless on the day of his appearing. He's zealous for good works.
33:56 -  You know, right to the end there was a sense of conclusion. They're moving towards something that we lack. And I want to say that that is the principal reason for the dynamic of the early church.
34:10 -  It's something that comes with an expectancy. It has a power and a dynamic for which nothing else can be substituted. And it is the absence of this that explains our brand,
34:21 -  lackadaisical and predictable Christianity. We do not expect again. We don't expect the day of the word coming,
34:32 -  the apocalyptic conclusion of God in judgment on a word that has rejected him. We don't want to see the day of the word and the earth being burned up and the heavens rolled up as a curtain.
34:48 -  We kind of would rather to see it improved. You know, can't it improve? The earth is burned up.
34:58 -  Will that include my Hi-Fi set and my location plans? We are not an apocalyptic minded people. So you see how everything is joined together?
35:10 -  We're missing the whole apostolic mindset. And you can't have a peace meal. You've got to have it entire or you have it not at all.
35:20 -  And if you don't have it, you condemn yourself for being charismatic. Worst of all faiths. Evangelical. You know what I mean?
35:29 -  It's nice and it has a measure of efficacy and blessing for this life and this world and this present age. But it is robbed entirely of the dynamics, the joy,
35:43 -  the expectation, the release, the power to endure and to overcome that it only belongs to those who see the things that are invisible and eternal and are living in that seeing and in that expectancy,
35:56 -  which is true living as I'm trying to show you in two verses here. Because you can do it. You know that you're really living.
36:05 -  When very little goods are being spoiled, you can take it joyfully. Why? Because you're some kind of masochist that likes to get run over? Because, you know, to the same measure that you have been spoiled,
36:18 -  denuded and robbed, what are you going to attain? A far more exceeding weight of glory of that which you endure because it's heavenly and eternal.
36:32 -  Believest thou this? Have you ever been stripped? You'll make yourself a candidate to the degree that you embrace
36:43 -  this apostolic mindset. The Lord might even allow you to be tested. As I have been on a few occasions,
36:52 -  very gently by the Lord, but enough for me to get the point. As for example, all of my Holocaust papers were in one box, all, that I had been assiduously collecting and keeping
37:07 -  for the number of years. And I put it all together in one box when I moved back to the farmhouse after we were off this property for three years.
37:17 -  Talk about being stripped of these goods. We had been on this property for ten years, Shelley was part of that, and June and Paul and Adrian and others that we met last night.
37:27 -  And then the Lord summarily ended it and required us to abandon this property. This property was just up for grabs.
37:35 -  Anybody could have come, vandals rather. We lost two trailers by water damage. The Lord preserved them.
37:41 -  I mean, it could have been much worse than it was without other saying when we would be back or if we would be back. And I had to face the death of this
37:49 -  and the few occasions I had to come up on this property to get something and to find a place like a ghost town. It was creeping in the wind.
37:58 -  Not a soul, not a laughter, not a voice, dead silence or the place used to abound in life and deathality. It takes the kishkes out of you.
38:06 -  It's death. I had to eat that because we had to know desolation. God brought us to desolation
38:14 -  because he's going to bring Israel to desolation. The only ones who will be able to come to Israel are those who have both tasted the desolation of God
38:22 -  and the restoration of God. You would be very realistic to expect that in one form or another
38:28 -  you're likely to experience a stripping. But will you take it joyfully? Remember that this is all in the context of faith.
38:38 -  First of all, it's the faith that believes that nothing can be taken that God did not first allow to be used without.
38:45 -  But greater than all of that is also that to the degree that we suffer loss in this life to that degree also will we obtain a gain
38:56 -  that shall never subside away. That is eternal and enduring in the heavens. Little wonder that the world has made of this a mock
39:06 -  and has tried to make a joke out of this and a picture of heaven is something playing a harp on a cloud
39:13 -  and it has robbed the church itself of the veracity of heaven, of eternity. We ourselves do not deeply believe
39:24 -  in that which is eternal. We acknowledge it, but we are not living as if we believe it.
39:31 -  Because it's another kind of living. It's a freedom from the fears and the anxieties that cripple those who are dwelling
39:41 -  upon the earth rather than in heaven. I would say there will be two categories of mankind in the last days.
39:50 -  Those that dwell on the earth, whose hearts will fail them for fear for the things that are coming upon the earth,
39:57 -  and those that dwell in heaven even while they live on the earth. Where is your dwelling?
40:05 -  Paul said, I am a citizen of heaven. I have my citizenship in heaven where I await whose coming.
40:12 -  And yet the man was on the earth so practically involved in the nuts and bolts operation of the church,
40:18 -  my God, you wonder how he could name it all. And yet was he being euphoric, was he being metaphoric to say,
40:26 -  I'm living in heaven, I'm nicely. That's where the man had his effectual and substantial life.
40:36 -  You've got to get this into your spirit and your understanding. Eternity is not another kind of time.
40:43 -  Eternity is not merely endless time. It's not just a quantitative thing. It is profoundly and foremost a qualitative thing.
40:53 -  And that qualitative thing is available now. It's eternity now for God. Right now we are in an eternal moment.
41:06 -  And when you begin to see all your moments as set in the context of eternity, you will bring to those moments
41:13 -  an intensity and a care and a solemnity and a seriousness that they would not otherwise have.
41:22 -  That's when you'll be fasting off. That's when your life will be studded with prayer. That's when we know that this is just another class
41:30 -  or another cycle, but that eternity is at stake. And who is sufficient for these things?
41:39 -  A fish? I'm going to say this many times though, that you'll be hit from it from one angle or the other.
41:51 -  And I would be very gratified and count the entire school worthwhile that this one thing will accomplish.
41:58 -  Eternity had come into your time. A whole new category, a whole new way of perceiving reality
42:06 -  and life and meaning and the faith that was not there before that transmutes and affects everything.
42:13 -  And this is not some hyperbolic thing that cats cooked up. This is the normative thing
42:20 -  that has been lost and that God is wanting now for you to see. It's reality.
42:26 -  Heaven is reality. And it's coming down for Earth. It's that new city
42:32 -  whose founder and builder has gone, that Abraham sought, that though he was in the land of promise,
42:38 -  it was yet for him a strange country. How come? It was not yet to come.
42:45 -  That would come. Okay. They trip-jacked in this forming of the goods,
42:55 -  knowing in yourselves, that you have in Heaven a better end and enjoying yourself.
43:06 -  You've got to know it in yourself. I love this because it's calculated to get us out of our little mental categories
43:18 -  where we think that if we can recite doctrines of the faith that somehow we have arrived. You've got to have something so in yourself
43:25 -  that when the affliction comes, you receive it gently. That's when you know you have it.
43:32 -  You're so sure of what comes after. God will so recompense whatever loss you've had to bear for his name's sake.
43:41 -  Prayer brought the whole council of God. Remember when Paul reviews his apostolic career with the elders from Ephesus.
43:50 -  He said, you know what manner of men I was with you from the beginning? And that in all seasons, going from house to house and in public places
43:59 -  daily and with tears, night and day, I proclaim to you the whole council of God. I think this is the whole council of God.
44:09 -  And I don't know that we need to balance one thing. It's whole. It comes into a reality.
44:17 -  And it will affect the practical categories of our life, but we don't have it. Well, let's just read on here.
44:25 -  Verse 36, we have need of patience that after you have done the will of God, that speaks of something practical in this life,
44:34 -  you might receive the promise. So here's a statement of the doing in this life connected with the promise in the life to come.
44:43 -  For yet a little while, and he that shall come will come and you might have it. So that promise is tied in with the coming of the Lord.
44:52 -  Look how, talk about that. Actually, I wouldn't call this balance. I would call this the whole council.
44:57 -  The whole thing is being stated in one verse here. It talks about Christian character, apostolic character, mainly patience. It talks about the practical effect of being the saint in the world,
45:11 -  doing the will of God, the sentence for which is receiving the promise, which is connected with the coming of the Lord.
45:22 -  He that shall come will come and you might have it. And that's a little while. Of course, it may seem to us a long time,
45:31 -  but from the divine perspective, it's only a little while. He who promised will come. And then, what's verse 30? Now.
45:41 -  I love that word, hallelujah for that. Now, the just shall live by faith. So what is it saying?
45:49 -  Now, go get spiritual, and be left from any practical obligation or consequence, and just put on your thumbs until he who comes will come.
46:00 -  No. Now, the just shall live. By faith. Good faith. The faith of his coming.
46:07 -  The faith of his appearing. The faith of his coming. The faith of the fulfillment of all these promises.
46:13 -  Now, live by it. That's... How did that get in there?
46:19 -  What timing, what a terrific insertion. I couldn't have done better myself. What a time to say now.
46:28 -  Just when you're beginning to get carried away in a few realms of heaven and promise, all of a sudden, boom, you're bound to the now.
46:36 -  The just shall live. That's what I'm trying to say to you guys. This is living.
46:42 -  This is release for living. It emancipates you from fear, from timidity, from self-consciousness,
46:50 -  from living in that little cubicle, that little spectrum of this present world only, this life only.
46:58 -  This is an emancipating view. It's a great release that enables you to live now. Faith is a mode of living
47:06 -  that has taken into its deepest consciousness the eschatological apocalyptic expectation of the end of the age
47:15 -  in its bureaucratic promise that transforms your quality of life now. When I sit down with Arnold Hamburg in Nuremberg
47:28 -  on September 19th, Lord willing, it's not going to be with my holding my hat in my hand and sitting in the man's great study,
47:36 -  who's the head of the Jewish community of Nuremberg and a legislator in Germany, it will be as one coming to him from the king himself,
47:46 -  sent from the throne, a representative and an ambassador of the Most High God, to me, who's living in the expectation of eternity
47:55 -  and Israel's restoration in glory, to a man who's just bundled about in the bean bags and hardly knows what you understand.
48:02 -  That doesn't mean I'm going to be contentious or disdainful or sneering or anything like that, but I'm in no way going to be intimidated
48:09 -  by anything other earthly or worldly qualifications. You see what I mean? This is a life free of intimidation.
48:18 -  If you're already in the eternal garden, I'm not waiting for God to experience it. It's eternal life now.
48:25 -  We haven't had it at any time. Let's just get back a little bit into chapter 10 and verse 23. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith
48:34 -  without wavering for he is faithful, that promised. And then what does it say from there? And let us consider one another
48:43 -  to provoke unto love and to good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is,
48:49 -  but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. The anticipation of what's coming
48:57 -  has a vital effect on how you're going to live now and what you'll be to the church. Exhort one another, encourage one another,
49:02 -  and love all of them all. It's a practical setup. Once this comes into your spirit,
49:08 -  you cannot abide a church that is a mere set of predictable Sunday services. Something is working in your spirit
49:17 -  that moves you to exhort and to encourage all the more to be part of the assembling of ourselves together
49:25 -  and to consider one another to provoke for love. It's a practical setup. This is what the faith is.
49:35 -  And Paul is the outstanding example. The fact that he was the one who saw the things that were eternal and invisible
49:43 -  most clearly, did that render him impractical? He saw the eternal weight of glory. He saw the things that were invisible
49:51 -  that made his afflictions momentary in life. Was he a man who was so esoteric and so the field and so caught up in the heavenly realms
49:57 -  that he would know perfectly good? Quite the contrary. He was the most practical, most sober,
50:03 -  most able to mediate, to give instruction how to communicate, how to behave yourself in the house of God.
50:10 -  Full of practicality. All the more because it was couched in a heavenly view.
50:16 -  And that's God's intention for us. That's why the apostles are the foundation of the church.
50:22 -  Not just their knowledge, but their whole character and their mode of life. They were eminently men of eternity.
50:29 -  And look what Jesus said in Nicodemus. No man ascends to heaven who is not placed from down from heaven
50:35 -  even the son of man who is in heaven. What is it? If Jesus is playing on words,
50:44 -  is he trying to tease the poor man to death who's already been robed? You must be born again.
50:50 -  Must I a second time go through my mother's room and now he's the son of man who's been up to heaven, descended
50:56 -  and is now presently in heaven while he's even talking to Nicodemus in Jerusalem.
51:02 -  What is he trying to do? Bewilder him or really explain to him what reality is?
51:08 -  Are we bewildered? It means that we're more identified with Nicodemus than we are with Jesus.
51:16 -  How can a man be in earth and say that he's in heaven? If you don't understand that,
51:22 -  you've not yet attained to the apostolic faith. Can you be in the port of Minnesota
51:28 -  and be in heaven at the same time? Can you be cleaning out the cow dung
51:34 -  or the pig poop or painting or washing or doing dishes and be in heaven
51:40 -  at the same time? You'd better believe it. That's God's normative
51:46 -  intention for us all. But you've got to believe that and see that
51:54 -  that's what faith is now. Now faith is.
52:00 -  It transfuses everything. It takes the ordinary and the mundane
52:06 -  and it invests it with a quality of eternity now.
52:12 -  It makes the profane sacred and it brings eternity into
52:18 -  time and I'm getting goose pimples as I'm walking. And it's for the absence
52:24 -  of this that mankind is freaking out because mankind was made in God's image
52:30 -  to live in the dimension that I'm now describing. And though they're ignorant of it,
52:36 -  their whole system is exploding. Their veins are going haywire, popping. Their minds are cracking out.
52:42 -  Their organs are exploding. Of course it was made to live in the eternal now. It was made to live in righteousness and in truth
52:48 -  and love and reality. But the world is so removed from God and from his categories and dimensions
52:54 -  that it's stunted. It thinks that everything is this present world. The poor hearts go out
53:00 -  of it when they watch the market rise and fall and recede and look at what's happening in the economy
53:06 -  and poor things. You see what I mean? It's a contorting restricted living
53:12 -  that is not a true living at all. And what is the ministry of the church?
53:18 -  Not just to proclaim but to demonstrate the message of the kingdom of God.
53:24 -  That is, at hand look, here it is. Touch and
53:30 -  fear, come and see. Look at the reality. Look at the people who are completely free from intimidation, from fear
53:36 -  from anxiety, from distress. Have such a confidence of the things which are
53:44 -  to come to pass and that it gets short and that the Lord is coming and there will be a new heaven and a new earth
53:50 -  where we will dwell in righteousness. Just seeing your peace
53:58 -  will be shattering for those who are unruly by what's happening in the world. If you are living by faith
54:06 -  the faith of those who can be stripped and take a breath. Oh, I tell you
54:12 -  I'm a depression baby since I'm sorry to make these references but it's the one wife that I know best.
54:18 -  Born in 1929 and without a father and living in poverty in Brooklyn
54:24 -  and my mother working for 12 bucks a week in the garment trade and riding the subway for hours to get back and forth
54:30 -  to work and growing up in want and finally becoming a professional and a teacher with security
54:36 -  and what do you call it you can't be fired and tenure and annual wage increases
54:42 -  and health insurance and all those things. The great security
54:48 -  you've grown up by which one and how the Lord has been dealing with me in my depression year
54:54 -  stinginess. It's a good joke between Indra and me. I clutch every little bar of salt
55:00 -  keep she ready to throw it away when it's reduced to that size and neither still went from that.
55:06 -  We'll keep visiting until it's designed for evermore. It's taken something from the Lord to liberate me
55:16 -  from being so attached and fearful over things like that
55:22 -  to come into an expansiveness to know that what is this? It's nothing for the Lord.
55:28 -  The Lord is at the door. The eternity is at hand. All fullness is coming.
55:34 -  This is the faith. Now the saints are lived by this faith
55:40 -  that can live sexually and consistently without receiving the reward
55:46 -  of their faithfulness in this life. Because they know that there's a mansion prepared for them in heaven
55:54 -  a great of treasure in heaven you cannot believe how extraordinary wealthy I'm going to be there.
56:00 -  I invite everyone to visit me. How then
56:06 -  does the vision come? It must come to us by foundational men
56:14 -  who are apostolic and prophetic and who are the stewards of the mystery
56:20 -  of God. You're not likely to get it from your pastor
56:26 -  but when the pastor himself will get it through the proclamation that comes from these foundational men
56:32 -  he can then explore and expand and show the applications.
56:38 -  This brings the church to a dependency on prophetic and apostolic men
56:44 -  who come to the church out from God. Paul called himself
56:50 -  a steward of the mysteries of God. He said pray for me that I might have grace for utterance
56:56 -  that I might boldly proclaim the riches of Christ. If you don't
57:02 -  hear it from the poor, if you don't hear it from men who have that calling, you're not going to hear it and that's why the church till now
57:08 -  has been robbed of its inheritance. It has not even believed of prophets and apostates
57:14 -  that are foundational who bring the vision of the faith in the church
57:20 -  and their speaking is not merely an explanation their speaking constitutes the event
57:26 -  it confers the revelation it brings it into the reality
57:32 -  of the life of God's people by the healing of the word that proceeds from them.
57:38 -  That's why we're having a school for the prophets. There's a
57:44 -  tremendous need for prophetic proclamation of the mysteries of God
57:50 -  of the ultimate truths of God, of the vision of God or without a vision
57:56 -  that people perish and we've got churches banging around in their programs and clunking around
58:02 -  with this and looking for some new fad and some new panacea that is going to alleviate the
58:08 -  malaise of the church and they try this and for a moment there's some quickening and an excitement
58:14 -  and then it precipitates and then another one or this hero or that or power evangelism, church growth
58:20 -  what's missing is what we're talking about now the apostolic view
58:26 -  the apocalyptic view, the eschatological view, the theocratic
58:32 -  view that can only come from those who are sent and maybe what the
58:38 -  last days conflict will be is between that greater religious body that thinks itself to be the church
58:44 -  that not only shuns but is offended by this message because they love the
58:50 -  petty kingdoms of this world of which they themselves are one
58:56 -  and will be threatened by the message of a greater kingdom or the the only way of service to the same
59:02 -  and that's why the calling of the prophet is a tough one he's got to be able to bear rejection
59:08 -  not only of his message but of himself and if they cannot refuse the message on its own merit
59:16 -  they'll refuse it on some specific fact they will have found in you and God will see to it that the sufficient
59:22 -  effect that they can observe and justify rejecting you by
59:28 -  and we'll get into this also the prophetic calling and that requires prophetic character
59:34 -  men who can bear such suffering who can bear such rejection will be faithful to bring the message
59:40 -  when it's resisted so that's the whole foundation
59:46 -  for what we're trying to do here this is not a school of discipleship we're not looking for people who are just beginning
59:52 -  to take steps in the faith but with people who already have a history have a calling and wanting to encourage
59:58 -  and bring to the least this most powerfully needed dimension to the church in the world
01:00:04 -  every year I was in Japan and I looked in on some of those congregations
01:00:10 -  my heart just sank what is it it's just sleeky
01:00:16 -  creaking along predictable kind of Christianity and it was clear they have not the true foundation
01:00:22 -  what we're discussing this morning is the foundation of the faith
01:00:28 -  the church is built upon the foundation of the apostles and this is exactly what has
01:00:34 -  been lost and this is what is desperately needing to be restored Elijah must first come and restore
01:00:40 -  all things it's good to clearly understand and to consciously
01:00:46 -  be aware of what was only intuitive or glistening itself you need to come into an awareness
01:00:54 -  so let's just take a little break at this point I don't even know how to proceed from here and I don't think
01:01:00 -  it would be good, I don't think it would have hurt after the break we went right back to the beginning and started the whole thing again, went through it a second time
01:01:08 -  so we just thank you precious God we know that what we're touching is so dear in your sight
01:01:14 -  so holy so at the foundations of the most precious faith
01:01:20 -  once and for all given to saints so long lost to your church
01:01:26 -  so desperately needing to be restored that we cry out to you precious God for grace from heaven
01:01:32 -  to make known such riches bless us Lord, bless these children
01:01:38 -  open our hearts and our understanding let your words find lodging there let them be my God
01:01:44 -  as knives and as daggers and as saws to cut open to find entry
01:01:50 -  and to find lodging and to be rooted there wrapped within
01:01:56 -  and that anything that we may have to consider anything else in the scriptures is seen in this light
01:02:02 -  in the light of this great consummation your coming
01:02:08 -  your kingdom your glory oh give us the stamina Lord
01:02:14 -  even to consider this that we might be steadfast and hold fast
01:02:20 -  out of confession thank you for this great faith and I'll privilege my God
01:02:26 -  to hear it continue on with us as it shall please you
01:02:32 -  we thank you my dear God for what you've given we thank you