The Ministry of Elijah 5 of 5

00:00 -  I've got two papers that I've written here. One is this open letter that I sent out to about fifty brothers here in the States who are either involved in prophetic ministry or are concerned for it. It was really a reply to a brother who had written a little book
00:23 -  called Standing in the Council of God, which was essentially a defense of present-day prophetic ministry. And I really esteem this brother whose name is Colton, so to let it be a Colton, but in it I have an opportunity for the first time to express some of the disquiet of my own
00:46 -  soul over things that he passed over, did not mention in his book. And I just appreciate this interaction with brothers of this maturity to express things like this. So I'll read this. You can stop me at any point if you want further elaboration, if it doesn't make sense. But I just
01:06 -  want you to have the context in which the letter was written in January 14, 1992. Basically his premise about prophets of whether they are true or false is whether their predictions are accurate. I think some of the Kansas City authorities, the fellowship there that has been really a host to
01:27 -  a lot of these prophetic men, talk about percentages, that it's unreasonable to expect an accuracy greater than 65 percent. But as we go on into increasing maturity, we'll become 70, 75 percent, and then maybe just before the Lord's coming we might be hitting a hundred. As if the issue is
01:48 -  the issue of the accuracy of prediction in assessing the validity of prophets. And I'm rejecting that entire criterion because I don't think that the issue is the issue of prediction, but the issue is the issue of the word, namely the prophetic word. And what I notice and observe as
02:09 -  I hear some of these men who are being described as the oracle of the hour publicly to the congregation that has been formed in their own hearing, as they said on the platform, that if someone had made that description of me and I would not think it appropriate, I would instantly
02:25 -  leap to my feet and take the microphone and rebuke the man who was complimenting me in that way, which of course never happened. They sit there and they receive these acknowledgments openly and publicly. And they will be held accountable before the Lord for that. And by the way,
02:43 -  not only did I notice lightness in those sessions, humor. It's not that I'm opposed to humor. I love humor. What is appropriate, I sometimes get funny myself once in a real while. But not on occasions where you're waiting to hear the oracle of the hour. It's somehow incompatible. And that when
03:05 -  the thing is over, instantly people are on their feet and chit-chat and lightness and where you're going to eat and like nothing had happened. There's something organically wrong with that, that I can't express better than what I'm saying. So I'm observing these symptomatic things and
03:23 -  trying to construct and see a pattern that perhaps we should understand because God Himself fingers lightness as being a symptom of false prophets. And I've been looking while we were talking to find the exact scripture of Jeremiah and Ezekiel. I can't seem to find it. I know it's there. If
03:42 -  anyone can find it. It's verse 32. 32 of chapter 23. I couldn't find it because I have my amplifier today. This is New King James's recklessness. Recklessness. And I didn't construe it as lightness. Well, maybe it's good to examine that word. I like that word. I don't like the
04:04 -  phenomenon, but I like the word as being very descriptive. What would you say lightness means as something inappropriate in what purports to be a prophetic setting? What is lightness? It does not command or demand our very serious attention. In fact, it's not high seriousness at all. You
04:28 -  know, one of the pre-reproaches I have to face, besides being loveless and I forgot what arrogant, is that I'm too serious. Have you ever had that one thrown at you? You're too serious. So, this lightness is a distinguishing symptom of something false. Is that to say that there are
04:53 -  not moments when we can enjoy a light moment, a word of humor, a quip or something like that? It goes without saying. I mean, praise the Lord. I mean, that's the very lubrication of life itself, but it's totally incompatible with the serious endeavor of the proclamation of the prophetic
05:15 -  word, all the more when it has been publicly announced and defined or lauded as being the oracle of the hour. So, we have some vocabulary here that we need to sift through. And in the letter, I write, for me, it's not the issue of prediction. It's the issue of the message. And
05:37 -  it's not that these men do not bring biblical messages, but it's the kind of biblical message that is a commonplace. That is to say, anyone could bring it. There's nothing to be faulted in terms of doctrine. It's correct, but it is not oracular. It is not a message that bears
05:56 -  prophetic weight or intensity or seriousness. So, I'm going to come back again to this word oracular. These men are described as the oracles of the hour, and their message should therefore be oracular. How would you define that word? What is an oracular message? What is the oracle of
06:22 -  God? O-r-a-l is in the very word oracular, so it's emitted from the mouth, but so can like things also be emitted, and even lying things be emitted. What distinguishes the oracles of God? I mean, if men have been described as this, what are we to understand by that statement? Because if we let
06:42 -  that word become cheap, or not have the value and the meaning that God attaches to it, it's a serious loss. It brings with it a way of perceiving things that was not there before that word came. It opens up a vista of who's seeing things as God sees them, which is all together, not as we see.
07:10 -  That is a prophetic function. What would you say about this age, and we're only just getting a few words in it. What is characteristic of this age? These last days, in the latter days, he says, you will consider this. What kind of an age is this? Shallow. Shallow? Come on.
07:30 -  Maybe I need to say, I've lived the longest. I like to see he's using the vocabulary already. Impatient. Religious. Religious, deceptive, confusing, bewildering, violent, filthy, immoral, amoral. What's the difference between immoral and amoral? Which of the two would be
07:55 -  more dangerous? The amoral. The amoral society doesn't even know that it's immoral, and doesn't even give a rap. This is an age of such ebbs and tides, and filthy, and sick, and perverse, and violent, and things shaking, and governance breaking down, and splintering, and fragmenting,
08:16 -  and collapse of kingdoms as whole civilizations. Mass genocide. Bosnia. Mass rape as a political military strategy. First time in history, the Nazis had never condescended to that. Soldiers have always taken their liberty, but a policy of rape as a policy? Unheard of.
08:37 -  A genocidal extermination of whole races and ethnic groups. What do they call it? Cleansing. Ethnic cleansing. I mean, there are terms that have been generated in our time now that never had an existence. Mom and I, and Jane, have lived long enough to know an age
09:02 -  that by comparison to this, my God, it was like an age of innocence. We lived before World War II as an age of innocence, and the rapidity and the escalation of evil. I got things that I could read that you'll fall out of your seat. What's going on in the New York
09:20 -  City public school systems? Actual depiction of anal intercourse for junior high school kids, and a 14-year-old snot-nose writing a public letter chastising adults for reducing or limiting their ability to see those things. That we want to be fully informed,
09:46 -  don't tell us that with your old-fashioned morality that we can't, this liberal editor, where does she get it from? Teacher, who's likely a lesbian, and so I mean them as an age. If ever, why am I saying all that? If ever we needed to hear the oracles of God, it's in such an hour as
10:05 -  this, and it's going to become more turbid, T-U-R-B-I-D. Turbid is what happens to the Mississippi River that comes out of the ground pure, but the time it flows out to the Gulf of Mexico is carrying every kind of filth and scum and oil and prophylactic and hypodermic needle
10:26 -  and every kind of vile thing. It's become turbid with filth. This world is full of turbid darkness. What is God saying Isaiah? Is it 60 or 61? Arise and shine for your light has come, and thick gloom and darkness pervades the earth. That's the description of the last days.
10:47 -  We need oracular statements. We need the light of God. We need to see what he is seeing and as he would have us to see, but if we allow that word to become cheapened and become a label that is affixed to anyone who is giving predictive prophecy or even the gift of knowledge or what
11:09 -  might even be worse fortune telling and call that oracular prophecy, we have had it. Cats, why are you so insanely jealous over this issue of whether something is truly prophetic or not? I'll tell you why. Because the church is built on the foundation of the apostles and the
11:30 -  prophets, the real thing, or it's not a real church, and if you allow the admission of a false foundation, what can you expect for the superstructure? If we have to be jealous over anything, my God, let us be jealous over the foundational things to the faith.
11:49 -  The enemy who knows this, what will he seek to traduce and to contradict and corrupt and make false but these very foundations? What do the scriptures explicitly warn us? That in the last days there will be false prophets and false apostles. In Revelation, God complements that
12:09 -  church that has recognized those apostles who say they are apostles but who are false. God complements that they have the ability to discern that. Would you say that right now, on a scale of zero to ten, what would you say, generally speaking, is the
12:28 -  level of the church's discernment? Three? Yeah. Okay, and what will that false God be named? Jesus? It wouldn't be bad if it were named Baal. Then we can know to avoid it. But the heck of it is called Jesus. All you have to do is invoke the sanctifying word and put it as a label on any
12:55 -  admixture of your own, God of your own conceiving, and call it Jesus. And 99 out of 100 saints will take that hook, line, and sinker without a moment's question. We're talking about what are the elements that constitute the prophet and an intense jealousy
13:16 -  for God as God. The integrity of God as God. How would he know whether it's a false God who's being purveyed under the label Jesus or in fact the true? What gives him a handle on that more than any other? That he can bring that discrepancy to the attention of others who
13:41 -  might have been suckered in to receive it because it's labeled the right way. How does he know the difference more than we? This is a key question. Can't answer that? As the Lord lives before whom I stand is not a little catchy phrase that Elijah is invoking to impress Ahab. It's his credential.
14:06 -  It's not his, he doesn't say PhD as the Lord. My PhD is this. I have a history with God. I know him. I have been in the secret places, in the councils of God, in the dark strange dealings with God. I know him in my own intimate and intensive personal experience in history. I know his voice, his
14:33 -  familiar accent. I know his characteristic way. As I've said before, and it's worth saying again, my view about Israel, which is very different and radically other than most of those who are sympathetic to Israel, is not based on hearing something that has come down to me from heaven.
14:54 -  Now Art thus saith the Lord, this is the way you're to understand Ezekiel 37, but that it's a view that is, what shall I say, the outworking and the expression of a history with God of his ways, his dealings, his judgments, centering in the principle of death and resurrection
15:19 -  that gives me a view of Israel, its future and God's dealings and its destiny in a way that others are not seeing it. You understand what I'm saying? My prophetic view of Israel is not the result of a voice that has come down from me to heaven. Now this is the way you're to see that. It is the
15:38 -  summation of a walk of a lifetime in God's own dealings with me in the history here at Ben Israel, in the centrality of the reality of death and resurrection that makes me to know, to know that I know that I know that Israel must die and that there must be a resurrected nation,
15:58 -  that only a resurrected nation can fulfill the millennial destiny of God. Excuse me. So as I go on in this letter to say that these men who are light, whose messages are only a preliminary that you have to wait through to get to the action for which you have come, namely
16:23 -  their predictive prophecies that excites and titillates the audience, have also at the same time strange histories, or that is to say non-histories. Where is their history in the body of Christ? All of a sudden they have been thrust onto the
16:45 -  charismatic evangelical stage, but you hadn't heard of them before. Where have they come from and what's their history and who knows them and who can commend them? You see what I mean? Well let me read that. So it's not that the messages have not been biblical and good,
17:03 -  so much as that they have not been oracular. That is prophetic in the sense of the weight, intensity and solemnity of them or the seriousness of them. True, my sampling has not been extensive, but I have not been struck by so much as any of those whom I've heard,
17:20 -  and indeed the last time was marked by a painful levity and unbecoming likeness after we were informed that we would hear the oracle of God for the hour. Please understand that the issue is not personal peak, P-I-Q-U-E, like I'm not just ventilating a little personal irritation
17:38 -  or disappointment, but that the prophetic standard, which is in a certain way the statement of God before his people is at stake. The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy and the spirit of prophecy is the testimony of Jesus. It's not only a loss of things pertaining to the word
18:00 -  prophetic, it's a loss pertaining to the things, to the name Jesus. There is a leveling or a belittling of the statement of God before his own people that rises and falls with the credibility of that which is prophetic, because the essential burden of the prophet is the intense jealousy
18:27 -  over the integrity of God himself. The prophet communicates the reality of God himself as he in fact is. That's the ultimate end for his prophetic being. What was Elijah doing before all Israel on Mount Carmel? Why did he set up that whole confrontation? Let it be known this day,
18:53 -  who is God? Let that God be God who answers by fire. Elijah's jealousy was that God would be revealed to the people who were purported to be the people of God and who've gone off fornicating after false Gods. His jealousy for God, that the people would know God,
19:16 -  the God of their fathers. So the issue of what is truly prophetic about is the issue of God. God rises or falls with the credibility of that prophetic ministry. Not only is his fear not communicated, neither his holiness in a real and searching sense, but we are likely to suffer a
19:38 -  distorted view of God. One of the symptoms of the age, a disturbing one, is that a book recently written by one of these now greatly celebrated personalities is on the Holy Spirit with the encouragement to know the Holy Spirit in his own person and that we have given too much attention
20:01 -  to Jesus and the Father but neglected the Holy Spirit and that this is the key to the understanding of God, which I'll tell you that the fathers of the apostolic fathers of the faith would turn over probably in their graves to hear that kind of a view being promulgated and yet it is on the
20:22 -  bestseller list, it is the bestseller. These are disturbing signs talking about three percent on a scale of three on a scale of ten in terms of discernment, the enormous popularity of this phenomenon and of these personalities. In fact, what shall we say about the phenomenon of personality
20:44 -  itself, the fascination of personality and God's people being drawn to the personality of men and their aura and their charisma or their miraculous power to slay in the Spirit and the things of that kind, the excitement and how I had to, I'm always giving you experiences out of my
21:08 -  history but Catherine Coleman now hopefully with the Lord and one of her last public displays was reaching behind the people who had come up for prayer and of course when she touches them they would go down but reaching behind the person to touch the catcher and the catcher would
21:34 -  go down and people shrieked with delight at this exciting novelty and the flash bulbs would be popping and the people would be running to the apron of the platform to photograph this thing and I'm standing four feet or sitting four feet from it just having finished a message on Elijah
21:56 -  which was a scandal and for which I'm still a stink and a reproach and her first words after I'd finished and taken more time than I should saying well we have heard about the Holy Spirit now I'm going to demonstrate him and then performing all of this and I'm standing four feet from the falling
22:18 -  bodies in the unbelievable agony or anguish of seeing invisibly a demonstration of power without the sensed felt presence of the living God you ever put those two things together the anguish was so unbearable that I had to get up and yank anger with me and leave and walk off the
22:44 -  platform before four thousand people but I could not abide it a moment more in fact I've had occasions in my life where things like that have happened full gospel regional or national international conferences where something is spoken or done where I have come within an iota
23:02 -  of not just leaving but yanking the microphone out of the hand of the man who is speaking words that my ear finds no fault because it's perfectly doctrinally correct and yet my spirit is altogether so knotted and anguished that I cannot bear for him to go on a moment more and then to find out
23:27 -  three months later that he's been revealed as a homosexual and that he had been ministering while in that condition and now no one noticing and then when he came into the great ballroom at the largest hotel in new york city the lights went out and a spotlight fell at the entrance
23:45 -  way as he stood there in his magnificent stature and came with his own organist playing and now God's great man of faith and power generally whatever his name is and the people stand up wide-eyed and in comes the great man walking down the aisle to the platform
24:09 -  and every eye upon him and before his and when that message was over 5 000 people got up less one and walked around the great ballroom in a line so they can come under the hands of this great man of faith and power who was found to be a notorious homosexual
24:30 -  if i would tell you who is on the platform talk about the sermon names that are household names are the most respected thoroughly established famous evangelists full gospel leaders in america not discerning ascending ascending yet my guts just excruciating pain
24:51 -  okay so uh but what are we saying what what is how do we get through all this well i and yet don't miss this his message was letter perfect talk about deception of the last days there was nothing in what was spoken that could be faulted technically but doctrinally
25:12 -  the lie was the lie of the spirit so i i wonder if that does not account for the low estate of God's people the squelching the swallowing down the going on the looking aside no one wanting to take issue in fact if you're the only freaking 5 000 whose guts are going haywire
25:32 -  what is your likely thought is something wrong with them or something wrong with you if you think something's wrong with you and i said to somebody else i think my dear brother is visiting today i said not the least of my ministry is to save men from insanity
25:49 -  who think that they alone are just the terrible freaks because of the way that they react to perceive because everybody else is having a ball and shouting hallelujah name and they alone are just in in an anguish of paroxysm of pain over the same thing that others are delighting
26:08 -  so you're going to be alone remember we said this the prophet is essentially alone and yet i'm going to say in this statement that he's not living in isolation in fact i accept that the prophet is in a community situation he's either false or will become that if he's
26:29 -  just surrounded by a bunch of back slappers and self-approving men he's on the road to becoming false so a prophet needs the protection of community a true vital fellowship as we said last night to receive exhortation and rebuke but when he stands for God in the crisis moment of
26:53 -  delivery we're in a situation in which he finds himself like what i'm describing he's going to be very much alone and so not the least of the requirement is a character that can bear the pain
27:14 -  of being alone of being rejected of feeling freaky or being out of it and in yet a confidence that though 4999 people are wide-eyed and enrapt with astonishment at the great figure and you alone have your guts exploding and every alarm going off within
27:41 -  that you can have a confidence in your discernment though you're one out of five thousand who has not bowed to me to bail that would take an extraordinary assurance in the accuracy of what is going off in your spirit because you're often required to act on that as for example a meeting where everyone
28:07 -  was having a ball and they were just praising the lord and you are incapable of it you cannot enter into their so-called joy and you have another discernment altogether and then i get up and i say to the congregation you have to forgive me but i can't enter into your joy
28:26 -  i have another sense whatsoever and i believe it's God's sense and i'm going to require you to come into my sense of things and forfeit your own for i believe it's God's and then i go off and i start speaking that way and sure enough before that message is over they have been brought from one
28:46 -  perception of reality to another the prophet bears or should bear an exclusive unique sense of the reality of things as God sees them though he'd be one out of the whole number that are there and have the courage to speak on what he senses and sees and perceives as being real
29:11 -  and that it's not some idiosyncratic thing peculiar to himself that he is experiencing you following that yeah right that's that's chutzpah you know that jewish word unless it really is grounded in God if it's a false prophet it's more likely to be some idiosyncratic thing
29:33 -  some vagary of his own mind or his own imagination and so the critical things are at stake a whole moment of truth that comes to a congregation or conferences or a meeting of ministers that very much rests on the accuracy of that vessel who and who has the history in God
29:59 -  so i think that the greater issue is not so much as whether these prophets are accurate most of the time so much as whether they are prophets at all to confirm the church in its own present likeness by their own example is analogous to the false prophets of the old testament time
30:16 -  who confirmed Israel in its sin all in all what is their revelation how irraculate is it what is it more or other than the general preaching of others who make no profession of being prophetic is their distinctive not much more the sensationalism or excitement of their gifts
30:36 -  or the anticipation derived from the hero status generated largely by their affirmation of each other the conference that i described that that was like where the mayor was the publicly described as the oracle of the hour had so much flattery in it that it was absolutely sickening i had never
30:55 -  attended a conference where men were complementing each other right and left in such laudatory exclamations that it was almost embarrassing to hear it and no one said enough you know they just basked in it or another conference where it was so dull and so dead and so bereft of any sense of
31:16 -  God's presence or power or anointing on any of the speakers and the next guy would get up and pay tribute to the guy who had preceded him and say wasn't that a word from the lord why aren't you powerfully moved didn't you feel the presence of God as he spoke what an anointing
31:36 -  and you're looking at scratching him and what either i'm totally out of it you know someone's missing it and that that meeting was at a meeting of new testament churches ministers of new testament churches purporting to be and i say it in this letter the best of what is available in christendom
31:59 -  today and yet they'll use that kind of lavish language totally out of keeping with the reality of what is in fact going on it's a courtesy it's it's a uh what's the word it's a professional response it's evoked there's a cue given you you respond to men and their expectancies
32:27 -  you imagine a man would get up and say i don't know but from the beginning of this meeting till this hour we're coming to you under it i have yet to sense God's presence or see his anointing on any speaker i don't know what's wrong but i think that we need to pray that man is finished
32:44 -  but as a matter of fact that's what happened at that same conference with that miraculous thing the man was being described as the ark leon it was bereft of anointing of God's presence we were anguishing there was a lot of us and talking among ourselves in the
33:00 -  break and my God what is this and then there came a saturday afternoon when the platform was open and men were being invited up to express anything they had or any impression i was never called on but he was called on a brother who's a pastor in the minneapolis area and i thought oh let's
33:21 -  see now what he will say because he was saying to us i have not experienced God's presence or anointing since this thing has begun he got on the platform you mentioned enormous pressure the peer pressure because this conference took place in his city and he was personally friendly with
33:40 -  the pastor whose church it was being staged and related to all of these other men and he began by saying the propitious and conventional right things and my heart was sinking because i knew he was bothering away his whole future in God he would never recover from this and evidently
34:02 -  it caught him and he stopped and took a deep breath and then he spoke the truth he said i have to say that from the moment this conference began till this present hour i have not sensed the presence of God nor the anointing in any speaker it went on like that i thought oh praise God the
34:21 -  moment of truth has come and then he got off the platform and the master ceremonies who've been making all of these lavish introductions and lauding men and complimenting men took that statement and by such an artfulness so twisted it as to defuse it and saying well wasn't that
34:45 -  a wonderful insight and now let's all stand to our feet and let's thank the lord and and let's ask the lord for our as if nothing had happened it's like a moment that came in london at the world conference of pentecostal churches that was so dull so predictable and so dead it
35:03 -  was an agony to sit until toward the end a cry a literal cry came up out of the balcony in tongues i felt myself breathing for the first time and i my heart began to pound with excitement God is finally breaking in among pentecostals the people of the spirit and if they've gone
35:24 -  kaflui and what shall we hope and i was waiting for the man at the mic to say can and then someone gave the interpretation in german it was an international conference i could pick up a few words my stand understanding of that language a cry of God for the hour God calling
35:41 -  his people to preparedness it was a real word and i thought that the next thing in my naivety was that the master sir was to say is there someone who can please translate that german interpretation for all of us who are english-speaking but instead he turned to the piano player went
35:58 -  i'll never forget that just like that a signal and the piano player began he is lord he is lord everybody the whole thousands of delegates he is lord and so in the name of he is lord the lordship of the lord was dismissed and the embarrassment of a penetrating cry
36:21 -  put aside and business went on as usual these are critical crisis things someone said later if Paul himself had been there he would not have been permitted to in any way break into what was going on and to upset it
36:42 -  uh i'm raising the question of why it is that people follow after these things with excitement and uh and why these personalities have received the kinds of acknowledgement that they have that it might be a statement of the dryness
37:02 -  of the church the grayness the the lassitude the predictability that that people in the church sense and they're waiting for something to break the monotony and here's a visible personality of a compelling kind with a certain excitement that maybe it's a it's a prophecy for you that
37:21 -  will come that explains this uh fascination another interesting side light is that some of these personalities have as their credential reference to angels that it's angels who have given them this word or this understanding about this person and this is something novel i don't
37:45 -  know about any of you here i've never heard this before where angels are invoked or sometimes even described as being with that prophet right there in the moment is a verification to give them explanation or edification about the things in which he's speaking or that is through the rep
38:04 -  through a message that has come through angels to them that their prophetic calling was established so likewise my concern for the reference to angels is not so much that this is invalid in the experience of saints i mean there can be angelic visitation michael the angel came to daniel
38:22 -  that there can be this in the experience of saints and ministers but that it becomes an authorization or validating of the prophetic calling when the message itself fails to do so and serves as a substitute instead of the prophetic credentials being validated by the
38:40 -  prophetic word it's validated by reference to angels this is the authorization this is what gives the prophet his credibility and his weight is that his ministry and calling came by visitation of angels or even his presence speaking and revelation is by angels so rather than the assessment and the
39:02 -  credibility coming by the word and the weight of the word as a prophetic word is an oracular word it comes on the basis of a supernatural phenomenon that may well be dubious at the best and false at worst God's word for the want of a better word is ponderous and we know it when we hear it as
39:23 -  marcia said when that word came she knew it it's a word of another kind it makes a particular demand upon our attention and likewise a requirement in our obedience one way in which i discern whether a word is from God or from man is what does it require of its hearing if it's non requiring
39:47 -  however biblical or inspirational and fine sounding i would suspect that its origin is not from God's secret place in counsel God's word is not for our entertainment or altruism God's word invariably requires how can you hear God and not be required of
40:08 -  i mean it's just inherent God does not speak for effect and yet how little of what we hear is requiring in a sense of requiring sacrifice are you talking particularly about the prophet prophetic proclamation or the teaching well i'm talking about prophetic but now this is true also
40:30 -  of just most preaching that we hear one thing that distinguished finney's preaching from present day preaching is finney was the never spoke in general terms he never left it up there and you put on the shoe if it fit he made his word clear he was speaking about you he's speaking
40:52 -  about you your condition now your attitude what you're doing saying that people the word of God bored into them they were convicted and broken he never allowed the word to be expressed in a general way which is characteristic i think of most speaking today because we think that if a word
41:10 -  is biblical we're fulfilling God's requirement remember what Paul was exhorting to timothy about preach the word and be instant because people will be wanting to have their ears tickled but exhort we do correct in other words when when Paul describes the word of God he's not telling
41:33 -  it's timothy to be a sermonizer that the word is a word calculated to reprove correct exhort and bring change but people he said will not want to hear that they want their ears tickled so it's what i'm speaking about is especially deadly in terms of prophetic proclamation
41:53 -  but it's equally true in all proclamation what we were saying yesterday that the false prophets leaping upon their sacrifice thinking that there was a God who would hear an answer they did not know that they were false they did not know that they were deceived they really expected an answer
42:12 -  and there's elijah mocking them when no answer came so for people to be confronted with the truth of their condition that it really is false though it has the correct label you call it Jesus is an astonishing indictment and indeed unless God honors that with his power and authority
42:36 -  the man who makes it is likely to find themselves stoned to death people don't know that they're deceived and one of the most startling things that has come to me in the last year is that i understood about mormons and jehovah's witnesses and other clear cultic
42:55 -  and occultic groups new age and so on but what startled me for the first time was that you can be as deceived in the vocabulary of the faith as you can be deceived in the terminology of new age think on that same deception same power to deceive it only is employing an orthodox and legitimate
43:20 -  vocabulary but that deception can come through it maybe even more powerfully because it's disguised in the conventional language of the faith than if it came in language that is clearly not under faith but that deception is not only possible but rampant in that particular area
43:43 -  and maybe the first task of the prophet in the spring cleaning of the church is not to confront the new age movements but to confront the church in its own deception in the employment of orthodox language that does not correlate to orthodox reality but serves as a guise and a cover
44:05 -  to humanisms and other kinds of presumptions and variances from God that are all together concealed under the covering of orthodox language this is the most powerful and blatant form of deception presently going on in the world but who can see it because to the ear it's entirely
44:29 -  credible and is saying the right thing like that man at that full gospel international conference at the hotel in new york God's man of faith and power upon whom the spotlight fell who put his own organist his word could not be faulted it was orthodox it was about the blood and it was about
44:48 -  atonement like like the man that we heard at the ukrainian messianic baptist church everything he was saying was legitimate orthodoxy but my guts were so knotted it was so painful all the more because of the jarring dissonance between something that is audibly orthodox and yet
45:12 -  existentially a lie that would have gone in your notes that's a statement here where we're burrowing into the anatomy of deception and the most formidable character of deception in the last days is not going to be some hitlerian fantasy out of left field that is so
45:37 -  bizarre that it can be instantly identified as being off the wall and out of the bowels of hell it is going to be couched in the most conventional orthodox biblical language when it says that they will kill us and claim they're doing God as service
45:58 -  shows that the persecution of the remnant church of the last days is not so much the threat that comes to us from the world but from a religious dimension that think they're doing God a service talk about deception they think they're really doing God a service they're removing the fly
46:18 -  from the ointment they're removing that ungainly hyper spiritual fundamentalist who insist on the 10 commandments and the word of God and don't understand what God is doing now that this is a new hour he's reconciling and unifying and bringing together an ecumenical wholeness all
46:39 -  the families of the faith we're all children of God all children of God you know who believe in the one God you may remember if you read the book spirit truth how that book was birthed how that message was first given by going to see or hear a speaker so talented so excellent that i could
46:59 -  hardly wait to get there you know it's rare to hear real preaching and i went on like the hind you know the deer going to the to the to the water brooks sitting up in a balcony and waiting for the for the moment to begin and looking about and something was wrong already and what i was seeing
47:20 -  in the way the posture of the people and then the word came forth and i'm listening and i'm approving and my that thing was happening in my guts that contradiction between the legitimate sound of the word and the spirit of it so i finally this is was my first revelation this is how the book the
47:39 -  thought came the spirit of truth there's the technical word of truth but the spirit of truth is far more searching and deep that the spirit was contradicting the word his word was radical and biblical but his spirit was saying to the congregation now don't get upset don't think i'm
48:01 -  actually requiring this of you remember this is just a sunday sermon we have an unspoken agreement i'll provide you with a biblical message every sunday and you provide me with a man's an income and things to pertain to minus necessaries of life and we'll just get along famously
48:20 -  his spirit was saying something contradict contradictory to the word and the dissonance between the contradiction was unbelievably painful and that's how God began to open to me the whole subject of spirit truth so this is a real key to end time deception
48:44 -  but what would be the the the issue about whether one is going to discern it or not the words are going to be impressive and orthodox how will you recognize it as deception and lie oh what do you think hearing that verse would be more difficult to discern good or evil good
49:08 -  evil is apparent but good is subtle good has much going for it good has much to commend it but if if the good is not from God it just emanates from a kind of altruistic humanistic personality who can sound it can good be as destructive to the interest of God as evil
49:33 -  more so because it appears as good but if it keeps you from the particular and perfect will of God it is evil and more deadly than evil because it does not recognize this evil because it purports to be good so you didn't answer my question what will enable you to discern through seeming
49:55 -  orthodoxy of things sounded to recognize things that are deceptive that's good i would just say in the line what we're speaking about if you'll understand me this is this is an insane extreme prophetic statement you've got to hate that which is good really understand what i'm saying remember
50:14 -  that the oil of gladness was upon Jesus because he hated he loved righteousness and he hated iniquity more than his brethren and i'm saying that we've got to hate good as much as we hate iniquity i'm talking about false good that which purports to be good appears to be good that would
50:35 -  appeal humanistically to us as being nice pleasant or right which is as as vicious as evil because it is equally as calculated to keep us from the perfect will of God and unless you hate good in that sense hate sentimentality hate mush hate that which appears and gives a nice feeling
51:03 -  i mean what is a false prophet anyway it's the guy who says peace peace when there is no peace he makes nice and which of us around the table this morning doesn't like nice and to be made nice there's something that yearns for it and therefore they have a ready market large audiences great
51:27 -  responses mass mailing lists because we want that which is nice good pleasant to the ear and in fact if you examine 90 of all of these predictive personal prophecies what is their character a self-created God has something for your future you may not have known this but you're
51:48 -  called and there's a future for you in a destiny and you're going to be doing great things for God and by next year this time the guy sitting there he's just a bump on a log before just occupying a pew seat all of a sudden he himself has a vision of God's faith and of the
52:06 -  man of power for the hour invariably these prophecies are that exalting kind they're good and pleasant to hear it's very rare really the word of judgment that unless you change your ways that by next year this time you'll be pushing up daisies but what would be an example in the life
52:32 -  of Jesus recorded in scripture of his own vehement opposition to the word good when he himself was um what's the word in a complementary way called good remember good master what must i do to inherit eternal life how flattering that's the kind of thing you say to a rabbi
52:56 -  they love it good teacher i could see the rabbi yes young man can i help you but Jesus rose to such prophetic indignation why call this down me good he wouldn't allow that compliment for himself because he knew what the speaker meant by it and to accept that premise for himself allows
53:22 -  the speaker to remain on the ground by which he's good when the scripture says there's no man good no not one why call this down me good there's no man good but God we've got to come to the same vehement hatred of what purports to be good because i think it's in this area that last
53:45 -  day's deceptions are going to abound they'll not be presented as sinister or evil but as seemingly good as for example unity this this desire for unity of the body of christ isn't that good a peace agreement harmony and then to social ills the necessity for a world
54:09 -  government where every nation will be responsive to a central i mean it's all going to be good it so we need to be able to hate good in that sense as to hate evil even more so seeing how much more deadly i'll just finish this little paragraph
54:30 -  God's word is ponderous we know it when we hear it it makes a particular demand and a requirement on our obedience and that kind of word can only come out of the council of God my concern is at the basing of the church a decline of the value and valuing of the word
54:48 -  when that which is not out of this council is announced as being the prophetic word so out of what formative relationships in the body have these prophets come their public prominence has been sudden i wonder if there were an appropriate nurturing not only of the gift but
55:11 -  of the character of the man before they were visited on the body how long and rightly have they been part of a local body have they been sent out by the same or have we been witnessing the score of celebrities who obtained verification through each other and are received too eagerly
55:30 -  from a church wanting to be relieved of its power p-a-l-l-o-r which means rainness its drabness its predictability it's one sunday like another i'm wanting some break in that predictable monotony and here's an exciting personality
55:53 -  and we're not too careful to ask where he's come from what his origins what his history what is church connection what body has sent him who knows him who's approved him with out of what fellowship has he been sent with blessing in fact it's the same kind of thing
56:10 -  that will characterize the lying signs and wonders people are so hungry for the demonstrations of power that they're not too careful to ask or to examine what is the source and the nexus from which that power has come wanting only to see the manifestation of power so everything is
56:32 -  already in place for the last day's deceptions and of all the ministries which one is appointed to recognize them and to identify them and to cry out against them and to make them know um and who i will lose their heads in the process it is the prophetic ministry
56:56 -  so serious stuff for all the church and the church that is as false as its foundation is of no value to God in this last day's purposes and will even find itself opposing God even in the name of God little good will they do toward Israel in the remarkable dealings that await that
57:21 -  nation and in fact will find themselves obstructing God's dealings in the name of good and why don't you leave these people alone haven't they suffered enough already this benign concern for jews from churches that will see our witness or word or prophetic calling a warning of judgment
57:43 -  as not being nice why don't you leave them alone already that's not loving yeah so lord we just want to thank you my God as we're feeling for something and approaching something in it uh that will be subtle deadly in its power not easily recognized if there's something in our
58:07 -  own souls that is craven something in us that yet desires the approval of men wanting to have our back slapped wanting to be taken into their council rather than finding the lonely and difficult secret council of God lord we just ask you to search us to examine our hearts my God
58:29 -  to keep our hearts with all diligence for all of the subtlety and seductive power that is already at work to reduce and to limit and to keep us my God from the vigilance for the church for your word for your name for your honor for the very word prophet