The Believer's Relationship to the Law

00:00 -  As the man who said that the law is holy and good, and how strenuous he was in speaking to the Galatians, when he observed that they were beginning to flirt with the law, and thought that some aspect of the law was a supplement to the faith in Jesus.
00:20 -  And I never understood why he was that vehement, as I'm helped now by this book to see it more clearly than ever before. It has to do with recognizing that Jesus condemned in the flesh everything that is of the flesh, and that the law, any attempt by man in his own effort, by moral or other means to bring righteousness to his life,
00:50 -  or by such a means to obtain salvation, is a contradiction of what Jesus died for. The death of Jesus is a statement against flesh, and anything of the flesh, by man in his own effort. And law is one of the prominent means in Judaism to obtain righteousness.
01:13 -  It is self-righteousness through one's own conduct, through ritual observance, and various other practices, to this very day. And the animosity against Jesus and the faith is the fight to the death, last gasped contest between self-righteousness and divine righteousness. Those who want to establish their own righteousness will kill, and have killed, in order to maintain their system,
01:46 -  which is an utter paradox by which they can establish their righteousness, even though they would employ murder. The death of Jesus and of the early church, the persecution, is an example. So why is Paul that vehement?
02:07 -  It has everything to do with his own personal history, and the way in which he was apprehended on the road to Damascus, and the revelation that was given him of the Lord. And the writer says here,
02:25 -  He saw that all that was obnoxious to the wrath of God in his life, nature and flesh, had been condemned vicariously in the death of Jesus on the cross. That Christ had been treated as Saul, and in the eyes and judgment of God, he, Saul, had died when Christ died. Just to paraphrase this, he had a glimpse of the death of Jesus in a way that comprehended his own flesh.
02:56 -  He died in Christ, and what was he in the flesh? But an exemplary Jew, according to the law, perfect. But in the death of Jesus that condemns the flesh, he saw that what he had honored and celebrated is vile,
03:16 -  and deserved the death to which it had been brought, at the expense of the death of God's own Son. So I'm saying we'll have to say this. Until we have seen in some measure the death of Jesus as a statement of judgment and condemnation on all flesh,
03:35 -  we will be like the Galatians, tempted to augment our faith in Christ by acts issuing out of ourselves, by deeds, by meritorious service, by other kinds of things as a compliment or a supplement to the salvation, which is uniquely and exclusively in him.
03:59 -  Paul was vehement about this because of his personal experience and the revelation that came to him and the appearance of the resurrected Christ on the road to Damascus. This was not an accident.
04:16 -  This was needful for the great apostle because he's laying the foundations of the faith for the church and all subsequent generations of it. And he has to nip in the bud every perverse thing that was already arising in his own time and generation.
04:33 -  As, for example, when Peter came to Antioch and ate with the Gentile believers until some Jews came up, Jewish believers from Jerusalem sent by James to spy out on them. And then he immediately changed his tactic and would not then eat with the Gentiles, went back to the law.
04:56 -  And Paul confronted Peter to his face in that moment. He would not let the moment pass because the issue of the gospel and the truth of the gospel was at stake. We need to appreciate his vehemence, his jealousy for the gospel that rests in the death and the resurrection of Jesus.
05:22 -  Or else he would not have been so insistent upon nailing any deviation that would go back in any way to incongruity to the law as a compliment or a supplement to the salvation that is exclusively in Christ. These were great issues in the commencement of Paul's apostolic ministry, and they are great issues now.
05:46 -  So I'm saying that in order to prepare Paul to recognize the threat of law, though it could be holy in itself, but when it's a means for self-righteousness, let alone the attainment of any kind of salvation through works, it's a statement against the death of Jesus.
06:13 -  I didn't understand that before. I just looked upon his Damascus experience as just, well, that's the way that God met him. But here's the thing, you guys.
06:24 -  When God gave us the key in Isaiah chapter 6, I saw the Lord high and lifted up. Something happened to Isaiah. He said, what was me?
06:34 -  I'm undone. I'm a man. When he saw the Lord, what Isaiah saw in chapter 6 is in essence, if not exactly,
06:44 -  what Paul saw on the road to Damascus, namely the revelation of Christ and him crucified. This has become for us only a formula, a doctrinal requirement. We have not had the vivid exposure or revelation or appropriation as it came to these men.
07:07 -  One was the chief prophet, the other the chief apostle. We can understand why they must, of necessity, have the revelation of Christ and him crucified in the most vivid and powerful terms, because it will affect every subsequent consideration
07:24 -  To the church that does not follow them in that degree of revelation and seeing, we lose the apostolic and prophetic quality of the faith until the crucifixion itself becomes almost tripe. That's one thing, is the death but also the resurrection that makes the death as justification effectual.
07:52 -  The resurrection showed that death had propitiated the wrath of God and quenched the fire of eternal vengeance. Even listen to language like this. Who talks like this now?
08:04 -  It revealed everlasting righteousness already achieved to perfection and put to account upon all those within Christ's bag. Resurrection is the stamp of the father's approval on the death of his son, that he did pay the price. He satisfied every righteous requirement by which sin had to be met in righteousness by the blood of an innocent victim.
08:30 -  And that he was resurrected is the statement of the acceptance and vindication of that death. Paul met Jesus as the resurrected Christ. So he had the revelation of the death and he had the vindication of the resurrection in the very first confrontation on the road to Damascus.
08:50 -  So powerful that it blinded him. And because he died with Christ, he saw his own death and in a deserved death, in Christ's death, he also then believed that he lived with him. And who else is there that has this profound conviction that if I died with Christ, I now also live with him.
09:13 -  That that death and the resurrection makes my union with him not only in his death but in his life. And that's why it's the same Paul who says for me to live as Christ. And that he again and again makes it very clear that all that issues from him is issuing out of the union with the life of the Son of God.
09:35 -  Because he's also in union with the death of the Son of God as a death deserved by one who was a notorious sinner. Seeking in his own flesh to establish his own righteousness and becoming thereby the persecutor of God himself. Henceforth Saul of Tarsus would live in that union and live by faith in that death.
10:00 -  He would live in that union the power and life of which he felt from his calling reckoning his natural life in the flesh as having been crucified with Christ of Calvary. For crucified it was and mortifying it he would live by the faith of the Son of God and dwelling in the comfort of the Holy Ghost being brought into the everlasting love of the Father. By a mystical and divinely created union the Son had received the sin into himself and that in all Saul's corruption so transferring it to the sinless, the substitutionary, the sacrificial and the atoning Son of Man.
10:36 -  Thus all was judged and born away in death. To this Christ's faith was addressed and the resurrection shows was justified and triumphant. In the event the union still stands in resurrection it stands. All the glory of the Son of God is made over to an actually united with Paul from the hand of the Majesty on high.
10:59 -  It's a pity to have to read this that fast but just to show that Paul's sonship and the authority that issued from it and the remarkable revelation and knowledge that he had and the authority that he expressed even so as to rebuke the earlier Apostle Peter and that to his face before the hearing of others. All issue out of the sonship that was Paul's by virtue of union with the Son both in death and in life.
11:31 -  I don't know that we have sufficiently appreciated that. Now that's one thing right unto it is that Calvary was the faith of the Son of God to be made a sacrifice for men who could not work helpless sinners who could do nothing those cursed by the law so that in their place made as them as their real substitutionary sacrifice
11:57 -  both the justice of the law and the everlasting righteousness of God might be poured out and poured out and poured out in vengeance and judgment till the last drop till the uttermost drain till all was totally exhausted and seemed to be exhausted in the drooping head and dripping blood of the slain and dead sacrifice. I'm happy for this description because this is the way Paul saw the atonement of Jesus dripping to the last drop unto death.
12:35 -  And by that scene it's a statement of God's provision for failed sinners for those attempting by law and self-righteousness to attain to some kind of righteousness in a failed way. That the only thing that could meet that was the substitutionary atonement to the last drop of his blood unto death. So this is not a polite little Jesus on the cross like a ballet dancer heaving a last breath and giving the Spirit to the Father.
13:16 -  This is seeing the sacrifice, seeing it richly and deeply, that means that it covers all of the multitude of the failings of men and their sin whether they are legalists, whether they are law seeking or law rejecting, they're equally sinners. But the blood and the life given up to the last drop covers the multitude of all that transgression.
13:49 -  This is the foundation of Paul's apostolic life. The revelation of the cross, the suffering and the death to the last drop, and the union that comes in that death with the life that issues from it in resurrection. All requirement of justice, legal and divine is forever satisfied, world without end.
14:14 -  The sin is justified in Christ for time and eternity beyond all further question. Yet if men go back to the law, any part of it, sign of it, all of it, they are saying it was not so. And that Paul calls frustrating the grace of God or Christ dying in vain.
14:35 -  If men go back to the law after this, it frustrates the grace of God and makes the sacrificial death of none account. Christ dying in vain. Can you see why Paul is so vehement with the Galatians?
14:55 -  What has deceived you that you can think to adopt Jewish law to complement your salvation in Christ? Why so much as embracing one figment of the law, you make the death and the shedding of that blood null and void. You make the grace of God vain.
15:22 -  That's why he was so insistent, because he esteemed every last drop of that blood that was required for that substitution and the effecting of that salvation. Nothing less or other would do, because all flesh is inherently sinful and evil and no good thing can come of it. And Christ in the flesh suffered death for the flesh.
15:51 -  To go back to the flesh in any form of righteousness through law is to make that sacrifice null and void and to make the grace of God vain. Got the idea? So, for if righteousness comes by the law, then Christ is dead in vain.
16:13 -  Well, that's one thing for us to say, but it's another thing for one to say it, who esteems that death. That death is vain? That excruciating death? The Son of God who came down from heaven and became flesh and man and suffered that excruciating thing to the last drop, that was vain?
16:37 -  That was needless? That the law could have been perfected or would have sufficed? It's because of Paul's embrace of the death of the atonement in the suffering and the death of Jesus to the last drop of blood and the revelation that came to him on the road to Damascus of his own sinful nature. Why do you persecute me, you so-called self-righteous zealot?
17:10 -  The effect of that was devastating and it had to be if this man is to become the Apostle, the foundational Apostle of the Church. So, what's the point for us? There needs to be some appropriation of the atonement, the sacrifice, the condemnation of flesh in any self-effort that Paul saw in the vivid revelation that came to him and affected all of his subsequent days.
17:43 -  It made him the vehement opponent in Galatia to those Christians who were being seduced by Jewish believers that they needed to embrace some aspect of the law to fulfill their faith or to come into the full Jewish inheritance. This is a struggle now, so though it's not Jewish law that tempts you, but any act of self-righteousness is a going back into the flesh and making the sacrifice of Jesus then. This is Paul's total and exclusive concentration and that's the foundation of the faith that God made in him.
18:22 -  But not only in the embrace of the death that brings his own flesh to death, but because he sees that and receives that, he also is joined with him in newness of life. He becomes a son of God. He can say, Abba Father, the new life has come in as the old life has gone out. He's another man, another authority, another reality because the two go together.
18:50 -  There's no appropriation of the life that results in sonship and service without first the embrace of the death that results in the complete annihilation of any hope of the flesh and the self-life for righteousness. And that's why there are so few sons to be found in Christendom today. They've not embraced the death. It may be as a doctrinal condescension, but not in the depth of Paul's appropriation that has to come as it did for Isaiah, also for him, through revelation.
19:28 -  We would be wise to be asking some measure about revelation or our faith will dissipate into something shallow and inadequate. And we will have made the grace of God of none effect. For Isaiah and for Paul, the key word is saw. I saw, in the year the kings are there, I saw also the Lord High and lifted up. Paul saw the crucified, resurrected Christ.
19:59 -  There's a seeing. That is the key. And God has got to grant that grace. We need to request to ask it. So Lord, we have fallen short of the apostolic verities, of the insistence, my God, of the salvation that has come exclusively through your blood. And it settles into something doctrinal, something verbal that we think that we have because we can articulate it or make some reference to it where we have not the vivid sense that Paul had.
20:50 -  For if we did, we would be enemies of the flesh and of the law and of any attempt to establish our righteousness by anything that issues from the flesh that you condemned in suffering and unto death. So Lord, I'm asking for the Church in the last days that Paul's great struggle would not be in vain, that the Church would not lapse again into the temptations of the hour that came to the Galatians, under the seducers who wanted to Judaize and bring the attractive aspects of the law, any aspect of which would have made null and void the sacrifice of Christ.
21:34 -  Lord, make this dear to us. We're pleading with you. We're asking for revelation. It's the heart of the faith. You gave it to these great men who are apostles and prophets. And to whatever degree, my God, we have a destiny in which those words are incorporated. We ask for a comparable revelation. May it come in your time, we pray, that we would strike our chest and say, woe is me. I am undone, for I am a man.
22:09 -  We thank you Lord, precious God, for Paul, for the purity and depth of his faith, for his unwillingness for a moment to allow the faith in any way to be compromised in condescension to men, and insisted on the truth of the Gospel in that very moment confronting the chief apostle to his face in the hearing of others. Thank you for that jealousy. That is the statement of his sonship and the statement that issues out of his union. That wasn't just human verbs.
22:45 -  That was itself the life of God being expressed with the same indignation that Jesus would have expressed had he been there in that situation and was there in the resurrection. That is the life of Paul. Come, my God, and bring us to that reality, for that is the only reality. So Lord, in this taking of your body and blood this morning, we're asking that you would impart the truth of your atonement in a new death, my God, that we have not before known.
23:22 -  Forgive us for having been satisfied with so little and that we were satisfied that we were correct. And we subscribe to the correct doctrine, for we did not know it in anything approaching Paul's death, and therefore nothing issues from us approaching Paul's life and ministry and service. So Lord, as we eat and drink, I'm asking that there be an impartation of what this cup represents and that broken bread represents.
23:54 -  That's the heart of the matter, Lord, that needs to be seen. Isaiah sought and he was transformed. Paul sought and he was transformed. He was blinded by what he saw. We need to see it, Lord, in the measure that your grace will allow, or we will be astonished and ashamed when we stand before you in that day. Come, my God, and impart revelation of the cross, as this brother has written, of the bleeding sacrifice till the last drop was bled.
24:33 -  Thank you, Lord, that that had got to be for something more than just minor offenses. It had got to be for something at the very root of what is in man as man, in which nothing less could have sufficed but the blood of the Son of God who died in the flesh. Thank you, my God, and the rose again. Thank you, Lord. To sin us, my God, as we eat, as you said, as oft as you do this, and remembrance of me. You didn't mean the sentimental remembrance. You meant the remembrance of yourself at the cross.
25:21 -  And so now also this cup. Blessed, Lord, we pray that we would esteem the blood that it symbolizes and represents that is fully adequate, my God, to make null and void all sin and all transgression, the most pitiful of which is the attempt of man in himself to establish his own righteousness. The end of that is to become a persecutor and a murderer. Thank you, Lord, for the blood. May we esteem it more deeply than ever in the taking of it now in Jesus' holy name. There's no accident that Paul cites his every attribute and distinction as a righteous man.
26:11 -  Hebrew of the Hebrews, according to the zeal, according to the law, perfect. He never committed any consciously. He just runs right down the line. And yet he sees himself as justly condemned in the crucifixion of Christ, that he deserved to be apprehended in that death, in that flesh. So what room then for any self-justification, any celebration of man?
26:37 -  What we need to see is that Paul's experience is not an aberration in history. It's a calculated givenness of God. It's the depth of it, the magnitude of it, the way it took place was calculated by God for all of Paul's subsequent apostolic career that affects us for this hour. So I just appreciate what God brought in that man. And I understand now, as I said before, better than ever, why he was so vehement against the law, which he said is holy and good.
27:20 -  It's a moot question of whether the faith would have survived to this day or would have been corrupted and lost. In early church fallacies, what's the word? Heresies. But his vehement opposition knits something in the bud and stands as an instruction to this day on the book of Theratians.
27:45 -  He's not ashamed to announce his apostolic credentials, not because it's a vain boast, but because everything rests in believing and receiving what issues from them as coming from God. See what I mean? He was a besieged man, not only from the unbelieving, Christ-rejecting Jewish community, but among the Jewish believers who still had a propensity toward the law and wanted Gentiles to embrace some aspect of it in order that they should become Christians. One of the great issues in Paul's time was what is the ethic of the faith? What are the rules and regulations? What is moral? How do you live?
28:34 -  Before we had the law, now you're saying that the law is done. Paul's answer is that righteousness issues out of the life. The life itself will give the right ethical and moral decision in any situation if you're living out of that life. He's making a radical supposition that rests everything again upon the death and the resurrection of Jesus.
29:01 -  So this is the most remarkable innovation. He was on the hot seat because they were wanting rules and regulations. How should we conduct ourselves? Now that you have condemned the law, how do we determine righteous conduct?
29:19 -  And Paul's answer is in Christ, in the new creation by those who are in it consistently, which is far more difficult than following rules and regulations. And there are people who prefer rules and regulations than to obtain the life and live consistently by it, as he did. That the word came into the very heart of pharisaical self-righteousness in a religious system that had centuries to be established and to be esteemed.
29:53 -  It came into that with a radical alternative that completely blows away that to which Jews have subscribed for generations and established a wholly new basis of righteousness by believing in him. My Lord, how can such an enterprise succeed except to be a God? And little wonder it was so competitive against, as I said, men will kill merely to preserve the right to be self-righteous.
30:31 -  What do we think of that modern evangelism that predicates the whole issue on men making a decision for Christ according to their will in the moment of their choosing? Is that a valid salvation or is that a condescending again to the flesh by which an act of man determines the status? And because this is the whole Billy Graham modern mode of event, you make a decision.
31:09 -  You decide for Christ. You. It's not the mystery of God in the moment of his choosing and the supernatural birth that comes down from above.
31:23 -  You can't tell from where it lists or where it's going. But you determine now that you will accept Christ. This may be one of the greatest travesties in the history of modern Christianity.
31:39 -  The whole generation of shallow, tax-lighting Christians whose lives are a little account for God. Paul, on the road to Damascus, that blinded him and he had three days neither eating nor drinking to brood over that revelation and review his whole Judaistic life in the light of it. What an investment, my God, for all the future.
32:06 -  How great of you to have done what you have done to set the church on its right foundation when there were so many perils and temptations and seduction current in his time, even from leaders of the church like Peter and James. So we thank you, Lord. If you took the pains to make such an investment in an apostle at the foundation of the church, what about the church in its last days?
32:35 -  What would you do, my God, to assure again that the foundations are secure and that there are men of apostolic and prophetic authority that will speak in the same way as Paul and see to what is needful? So we're asking you, my God, to reveal, to grant, to be jealous over your church, to be jealous over this little aspect of it that we ourselves are because you're doing something innocent with us when you started with Isaiah 6 and now adding this. It's all one monumental theme that has to do with revelation of yourself crucified, dead and risen.
33:18 -  So we bless you, Lord. Thank you, my God, for your patience. Do a work in us, we pray.
33:25 -  It's your work, Lord. And we thank you as we ask that you will assure us.