The Tower of Babel

00:00 -  So, let's look at Chapter 11, at the first expression of these rudiments, these, what's the word, intrinsic dispositions against God, when men formed together to exalt themselves over God and establish their own identity and nationality. So, they migrated from the
00:30 -  East, they came upon a plane in the land of Shana and settled there. Maybe even the selection of a plane, like Lot's selection of the plane, is already an indication of greed because it's suitable for agriculture and the blessed. So, in other words, men are predicating a
00:52 -  decision of where they shall locate, not on the basis of God's will and wisdom and choice, but what their eye sees and what their hearts lust after as an advantage for themselves. And, how many of us have chosen our locations on exactly the same basis? We're living in
01:15 -  Florida, or in a mild climate, or in a place of the country where the conditions are suitable for us, they are the plane, they are conducive to our advantage and to our blessedness, but did God himself choose it? As he has, I'm not boasting in myself, God has chosen this
01:36 -  place for us, northern Minnesota, sub-arctic conditions for 26 years. Inga has never recovered from the loss of her 70-room house in New Jersey, or our charismatic lifestyle. But here's the issue of whether the Lord is the Lord, for if the church itself is only directed
01:58 -  by its self-interest, or an opportunity has come, a total, what do you call it for school, what is that you're enjoying brother? What do they call it? A scholarship. Is that the grounds for acceptance? We're getting down to the nitty-gritty here. Merely because opportunity
02:22 -  presents itself, is that necessarily the statement of God's will? The very first era of mankind where the seed of rebellion is both expressed and cultivated, that has its continuation throughout history, and has yet to have its most final, drastic, and violent expression
02:40 -  is men choosing their own location because of its convenience, or its promise, or its acceptability. They have not sought God. This is the initial era, but if the church itself is subject to that era, if we are living like the world and predicating our decisions on
03:00 -  self-interest, we like the climate, we like the fishing, we like this, we like that, then how shall we be a voice to the nations of the sovereignty and Lordship of our God? We're losing it right from the first. So this is instructive. You may ask the Lord, is that
03:18 -  scholarship from you? Is this opportunity from you? Did I predicate this decision on self-interest, analyzing and viewing the benefits that would accrue to me by moving here and doing that? Or did I seek you and know that this is your will? And even now, am I willing
03:37 -  to forsake and give up the advantage and benefit that I have enjoyed if you are not the author of it? That will more advance your ministry as a significant voice in the nation than finishing the course and getting the diploma. I just recently got a diploma, not because
03:55 -  I have sought it, but because God has required it, which means something else entirely. So let's learn, you're saying, that we are not of the world and we don't predicate our decisions on the basis of the plain or the advantage of the thing that is attractive or would
04:15 -  redound to our benefit. But what does the Lord require? Well, maybe as they migrated from the East, who told them to leave? What instigated their migration? Was it self-appointed? Was it directed of the Lord? The rebellion may have had its inception right at the very
04:35 -  beginning, which it invariably does. And so they came upon this attractive land and settled there. Another decision, no instant, no indication whatever that God is in any way directing this entire enterprise. And so it's not a surprise to see what follows, come, let us
04:57 -  make bricks and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone and tar for mortar. What do you make of that? Anything wrong with that? Aren't bricks convenient and accessible and you can make them by burning them? Would God be offended? Do you ever read of any altar
05:22 -  that God asked Israel to raise up that they would make out of brick? That man fashions out of his devices and intelligence and expediency, let us make? Why wasn't there stone to build the tower? Because God never had an intention that there should be one. And so man in his
05:48 -  own ingenuity, acting as Lord, finds a way through technology to erect his own symbol of kingdom. Is that a problem for the church today? Are there any movements and ministries that are making bricks and using tar, which is to say synthetic, artificial, humanly contrived
06:12 -  ingredients to build? Why don't they wait for stone? Why don't they not build it if there's no stone? I think Nimrod was the author of technology. If I'm not mistaken, Tubal, the use of metal and instruments and so on, is the beginning of the implementation for
06:32 -  human rebellion against God. So what's the implication for us today with regard to technology? Touch it sparingly. Be aware that when you're touching technology, you're touching bricks and tar, you're touching what man has contrived and made for his own self-adulation and self-exaltation.
06:55 -  And if you touch it, you leave yourself prone to be corrupted. Isn't it interesting that at the end of the age, the issue of the mark of the beast is the issue of the convenience of technology. Because without it you cannot bind yourself. You cannot transact. How then
07:14 -  shall you live? So we need to consider now a faith by which we can obtain sustenance without subscribing to a system that requires its mark. For the eternal consequence of having taken that mark is too horrible to contemplate. Isn't it remarkable how the issues of the
07:35 -  first will come at the end? So what's my suggestion? Begin even now to insulate yourself from the advantages of technology. Simplify your life. Make yourself less dependent, less responsive of those things. So that when the time comes that they're not available except by the taking
07:57 -  of the mark, we can well afford to be without them and not expire. It's amazing in my travels with brothers how I've seen men collapse for the want of a McDonald's hamburger. I went with a brother to Egypt and he could not eat the local food and he was like a man
08:20 -  panting for water in the wilderness until he found a hamburger joint in Cairo. He needed a fix. How many of us are hooked and do not realize that we are so engaged and dependent until it's removed from us? I had a secretary who went to Germany, a pietistic German group,
08:45 -  and she went because she wanted to experience the cross and the thing that killed her was that she could not find or go out to a Chinese restaurant. She didn't realize it until it was denied that it was for her a fix. And for us going out, what is that? That's like
09:06 -  breathing. But we don't realize that it's more than just gastronomy. It's more than just nutrition. There's psychological, social, emotional aspects of eating, of going out, of enjoying certain kinds of things that are almost narcotic. So there would be a separated
09:26 -  people. I remember how when he mis-suggested that we should get a fax machine. A fax machine? What do you think we are? We have a fax machine. And the computer? For three days when it was a gift, I looked at it without turning it on. Afraid to turn it on. Now it's indispensable.
09:44 -  The highest ratio in the world of cell phones to population is in Israel. You figure that one out. Okay. Do you like this going into a text? You know, that's not the least of our purposes in receiving the value, the meaning, is the practice itself. And we said in the
10:07 -  prayer time, most of us have been lazy and we have not been encouraged to be students of the word. We just read it superficially. But we need to get in. So I'm trusting and encouraging and hoping that what we're doing here will remain with you as a disposition
10:24 -  that will continue when you return home. You'll never again read the scripture again the same way. You'll never again be shallow. You'll never again superficially pass it over and just find a text for your point you'll get into. What is being said here? What's the
10:40 -  heart of this? What is the significance about bricks and burning and tar that has implication? What is the genius of this? This is the drawing out that I believe the Lord is encouraging. So they had brick for stone. See the way it's expressed? Why doesn't the text just say
10:59 -  and they had brick? No, they had brick for stone indicating that there was a human alternative to a divine provision. And we need to ask in our life what have we, where have we been yielded to brick for stone? Where have we built of ourselves rather than wait for the
11:22 -  divine provision? Just in one of the recent meetings from which I've come I said when the phrase the body of Christ was popular I was not the first in my neighborhood to have it but the last. I could have had it just like anybody else and I have become conversant
11:40 -  in that phrase and used it with just the same degree of cleverness as anyone else. Why did I even avoid and shrink from employing the phrase? Because I knew that I had not the reality. I didn't want to adopt the terminology until I had the reality to which it corresponds.
11:59 -  And so I was the last in my neighborhood but how did I obtain it? Through the Lord, not through human cleverness, not through becoming phraseological and adopting a new terminology that is now popular and in vogue. It came through the struggle with anger, with female
12:17 -  and male, with gentile and Jew, trying to work it out in marriage. I began to realize the genius of what the body of Christ is in its diversity and how it's obtained not by smoothing things over but through the redemptive work of God. Then I began to understand the
12:34 -  genius of the body of Christ. Now it's used as a catch word. So here's an instance of bricks versus stone. There are things that we can conveniently acquire. They seem to serve the purpose but they do not correspond to the reality. Do we have a jealousy for
12:51 -  the stone only, that is to say, the thing which is God given? And are we willing to have our faces sticking out when everybody else seems to have it and we have nothing? That's the issue of devotion and receiving something from God as truth rather than as
13:10 -  phraseology. Most of us are phraseological Christians with a whole backpack of correct terminology but without the adequate reality because we've been too quick for the convenience of something and unwilling to wait for that which is God given. So all of that is in the
13:31 -  phrase brick for stone. Would you have missed it? Brick for stone. Oh, there's an alternative to brick. They didn't wait. They were impetuous, impatient, self-exalting, using their God given soul to manufacture and fabricate by man what they should have waited for from
13:53 -  God because their motivation was not his glory but their success. That's what we need to see. What's the root? What's the motive, the incentive for seizing upon the expedient? Why doesn't it wait for the truth? Because the motive is not the glory that would come
14:11 -  from the God who gives stone but the self-exaltation that comes from our own promotion. And that characterizes many if not most of present-day ministries. Promotion and acceptance in wide popularity and success. But where is the glory of God? So maybe we can say the root
14:33 -  of rebellion is the indifference to, the ignorance of, and the rejection of God's glory. And maybe the state of Israel would be a leading expression in the world of this kind of human endeavor, seeking to establish by human effort what could only be given by God. More concern
14:57 -  for success than for glory. And where is the church that will bring the consciousness of that to the nation that it might repent and forsake the making of bricks and wait and seek God? Because what has happened in the human substitution for the things given to
15:16 -  God? The wrath, the anger of their neighbors. Children who are willing to blow themselves up and thinking that they are doing God's service because their anger and hatred is so great, having been excited and stirred by the nation that has established itself
15:37 -  through brick and mortar. Imagine my saying that in Israel? My head would be handed to me on a platter. So to sound the perspectives of God and bring it to the consciousness of the secular or to the religious is taking the risk. Okay, they had bricks for stone
16:03 -  and bitumen or tar for mortar. Then they said, come let us build ourselves. Look at the language here. We'll build for ourselves a city and a tower with its top in the heavens and let us make a name for ourselves. The only city that God endorses is Zion. Every
16:33 -  other city is a rival and cities are the incubations of evil. Every vice and every vile thing that panders to man and to sin is to be found in cities. When we came here 26 years ago and my kids said, can we go into town? What do you want to go into town for? I want
16:58 -  to go to the mall. What do you need? We don't need anything, Dad. We just want to see the mall. We want to see the merchandise. We want to see the diverse and interesting different stores and booths and things like that. There's something about city and its allurement
17:16 -  which is contrary to God. The millennial blessedness is every man under his own vine. The image of God is not prospering in the city except the city of God that comes down from above. But it's more of a rural and agricultural symbol that is the statement of
17:35 -  millennial blessedness. Every man under his own vine. Not every man in his own apartment at parking lot. So city is a study in itself. Anybody know the name of the French theologian who has majored in this whose name escapes me? I'll bring one of his books on a future
17:57 -  time where he examines the whole subject of city as being the very entity and seat of rebellion against God. Well, have you been to New York? Have you been to Sydney, Australia? I was impressed on this trip with Sydney, Australia. The towers, the skyline, the bridges,
18:19 -  it was awesome. It took your breath away. You gasped. And you thought to yourself, where is God? He's eclipsed. The invisible God. These are all the monuments of men. And I remember as a kid in Brooklyn coming up out of the subways and onto the Brooklyn middle
18:36 -  of the Manhattan Bridge where the train came and looking at the skyline and the East River and the skyscrapers. Wow. Awesome. Compelling. Man vying against God and having all of the models, all of the credentials to impress and to win the loyalty and submission of men.
19:00 -  We were intimidated by Bemidji, Minnesota after a 10-day fast and the Lord called us to conduct an outreach at Bemidji State University. I've spoken at University of California in North Carolina. In Germany and Denmark I've been to universities over the world. But to
19:22 -  come to Bemidji, what is that, 6,000 students? Big deal. And we left after a 10-day fast and as we left and began to negotiate the roads and come up into the city, as we began to see the first evidences of Tom and came onto the campus and saw the big dish in front
19:39 -  of the media communication building, the spirit went right out of me. The virtue went out of me. I was intimidated by Bemidji State University. Its buildings, its apparatus, its technology. Be instructed and be not impressed. The interesting question is, were they building
20:04 -  a house? What were they building? They were building a monument and a tower to themselves that would exalt themselves above God. Let's read that. Let us build ourselves a city and a tower with its top in the heavens and let us make a name for ourselves. Lest or otherwise
20:28 -  we shall be scattered aboard upon the face of the whole earth. So mankind, almost just out of the flood, perceives that its own self exaltation comes with its own unity. By being together rather than being scattered. It may well be that the nations and their boundaries
20:50 -  today is God's judgment and chastisement against us and to keep men from a false ecumenical unity that would conspire against God as God. In fact, the whole of our modern time now is the conscious seeking for an ecumenical world government of a religious and political
21:13 -  time, which is going back to the word thing that we're reading here. Men still want what the Lord has reprimanded them for all those thousands of years ago. And why do they want the tower higher than the heavens? Higher, not as high, higher. Whose spirit is that?
21:34 -  Whose mind is that? But that fallen angel who wanted to exalt himself above God. And that spirit prevails in the nations of which he is the prince and the false ruler of this age. The Gods of this world still have this as their inspiration, to exalt themselves
21:55 -  above God. And when the Antichrist comes and seeks himself in the temple, what is he doing? But seeking to be recognized as being above God and exalted as God and above all Gods. So here we're going to have a final last day's manifestation of this spirit, which is already
22:18 -  at work in the world. One of my messages on the trip from which I've just returned is that Antichrist is already seated in this temple, not the one to be built in Jerusalem, but the one that is the church. And parading himself as God and being accepted as God,
22:35 -  though he is a no-God, which is to say that unperceiving and underscoring Christians are saying and attributing things to God that is not God and therefore exalting that false spirit that is purporting to be as God. And it's already seated in the church, which is
22:55 -  his temple. Get the tape. Okay. Let us make a name for ourselves, otherwise we shall be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth. So the Lord came down to see the city and the tower which mortals had built, and the Lord said, look, they are one people,
23:21 -  and they have one open language, and this is only the beginning of what they will do. Nothing that they propose to do will now be impossible for them. Come, let us go down and confuse their language there so that they will not understand one another's speech.
23:37 -  So the Lord scattered them abroad from there over the face of all the earth, and they left off building the city. Therefore it was called Babel, because there the Lord confused the language of the earth, and from there the Lord scattered them abroad over the face of
23:52 -  the earth. We need to dig into that, Saints. Of all the ways in which God could have negated this anti-God movement, he did it by confusing language. He could have done any number of things, but no, it was language that somehow is the key to a false unity. And maybe a tongue
24:13 -  that the Lord will give will be a key to true unity, or being of one mind, one heart, and one soul. The word Babel means confusion, but I have a footnote here that's interesting in my Bible. It says the Arcadian, not the Hebrew, definition of Babel means gate of the
24:33 -  Gods. Gate of the Gods. Gate, remember that the wise men sit at the gate, and that the Godly woman in Proverbs 31 frees her husband that he might sit at the gate and give counsel. The gate is the locus of government and of rule. So here again is another anti-God attempt
24:56 -  at government. Not just the power as a celebrated thing that's high, but as a government of man independent of God. It was their gate, it was their place of authority, and God cannot allow that. And there must, there are comparable statements like that in modern times. Maybe
25:17 -  the United Nations or the attempt at an ecumenical global unity is of course a false government of rule. Any other comment about confusing their language so they will not understand one another's speech and that stops the whole thing dead on its tracks? Any way to take
25:49 -  that and to turn it upside down in a way that would constitute blessing for us? If God undid something that was unGodly by confusing speech, what about speech, rightly understood and rightly employed, that will obtain blessing and will build the city of God? Can we think
26:16 -  on that? I think there's a place where Paul says, and speak the same thing. And speak the same thing. So is Paul encouraging the church to become autolotons? What is he saying and what is he after? What should we be after? What is he encouraging? That we should speak
26:36 -  the same thing. And a matter of fact, will Israel ever be brought back from the dead as dry bones until a son of man company, a church in its corporate reality can speak the same thing and prophesy to those bones? Not because they have been pushed off the
26:53 -  assembly line as automatons, but they have come to an agreement with God and with his mind and with his heart and with his words. They speak the same thing because they are all in the same relationship with the one God who is only speaking is the true speaking.
27:10 -  How do you come to that if you don't first give up your own babble? There's so much babble in the kingdom, cheap talk, profuse words, gift of gab. We're not going to get the word of the Lord until we rid ourselves of our own. Well, there are those who believe that the
27:32 -  last days tribulation for the church is that purification and that purging of all that, the cheap and easy glib things that we speak and say that have to do with our own advancement will be purged. And then we will be viable instruments for the Lord's own word. And
27:51 -  we'll all be saying the same thing. Not because we are automatons and are compelled and stamped out, but because we have all come to a reality of relationship with the God who is speaking alone is the true speaking. So this thing prophesied, son of man, is the issue of Israel's
28:11 -  salvation. And it's got to come as one voice and as one word when God commands it. Peter rising with the eleven. Of necessity, there were not eleven men speaking at one time. That would have been confusion. When one spoke in accordance with the eleven, there
28:28 -  are one heart, one mind and one agreement. And though it was spoken out of the one appointed vessel, it enjoyed the support and the weight and the authority of men in agreement. They spoke the same thing. The one did the actual speaking. It was the speaking for all. Imagine
28:46 -  a church like that now. And in fact, until we have it, how shall we confront our governments? How shall we speak to our nation unless we have that one voice without authority? One may be sent, but the sent one represents the body that has sent them where they are in
29:04 -  an agreement. And therefore he goes with an authority that God will only confer from that kind of agreement. So there's got to be a lot of dealing with our individual opinions, our notions, our ideas, our thoughts to come to this kind of corporate reality. But I can't
29:26 -  help but repeat myself. It is not becoming automatons. That would defeat God. He didn't call us to be a bunch of tin saints punched off an assembly line. He loves our individuality. He has framed it. When I offer myself to the Lord every day anew, I'm saying, Lord, take
29:46 -  and employ this frame that you yourself have formed. Every day anew, I'm saying, Lord, take and employ this frame that you yourself have formed and possess it. It's your own possession and express through it those purposes for which it was a thing. There's a particular
30:06 -  personality, disposition, a framework that God himself, he knew us in our mother's wounds, but does he have his possession for his expression? When he will, you'll see what will happen in our prayer times. There'll be such a diversity and richness of prayer, but it will be so
30:24 -  in agreement, so congruent, one with the other, that it all issues out of one mind, one heart, one soul, God. If we don't have this as an object of intention for the Church, will we obtain it? If we don't think that it's possible, will it be a reality? Will Israel
30:45 -  be saved unless this is a reality that we can believe for and strive for and are willing to suffer the chastisements of God in the areas of our own babble and confusion and die to it, even when it's correct, if the Lord has not given it, it's a babble? Wonderful
31:14 -  instruction here, dear Saints. I almost feel guilty in passing over it so quickly, but it's in the beginning. It's the anatomy of human sin, rebellion, and it also offers us a glimpse of what is the alternative, not bricks, but stone, not confused tongue, but
31:34 -  one speech. How do we get to one heart, one mind, one soul, one agreement? I can tell you, and you may have heard from tapes and from books that issue from us what we have gone through here. One of the early crisis, because we were always poor, came when a check
32:04 -  came to us in the mail for $5,000, which at that time we were so poor it had the value today of $50,000. We were desperate for insulation, for housing, for food. This was the age of the prosperity movement, and we were languishing here for the most elementary things. When
32:23 -  that $5,000 check came, I can't tell you the celebration at Ben Israel, Ben and Community 51. We were rejoicing, and Friday was our fast day, and prayer for Israel, and we were sitting rejoicing, and the Lord speak to me in a still small voice, send that check away
32:40 -  to Jerusalem, to Israel, to such and such a couple in ministry there. I said, Lord, they have a vowel bowl and leather jackets and musical instruments. We need it more than they. But that's not how you talk to God. You don't put against Him logic. He has spoken.
33:00 -  And so I waited for a break. It was like a man pulling the pin out of a hand grenade and rolling it down the floor. I think that God is wanting us to send this check to Israel, to such and such a couple for the ministry. That hand grenade went off, and people were
33:21 -  splattered all over, shrieks and howls and screams. If you don't take care of your own, you're worse than an infidel. God honored our faith. We never advertised our need. Now it's coming. You say, only you say? And who are you? And what's your marriage? And do
33:35 -  you have it all together? Is your house in order? I said, look, today's a fast day. There's God. He has one mind, one soul, one will. And let's go out, each one of us, and seek the Lord and find His mind and heart and come back together and see what the Lord is saying.
33:51 -  I was hoping that I was wrong. And they came back that night worse than the morning. Loud. They had found scriptures to justify their position. Full of babble, full of confusion. This is the end of the Israel crisis, ultimate crisis. And then the weakest voice in the
34:13 -  community, a new Jewish believer with a little pipsqueak voice, well, he said, I don't purport to have heard what Art says that he has heard from God, but I think that if Art is the elder and God has spoken to him, we have an obligation to go with that. It was the voice of the
34:33 -  Lord that stopped all argument. There was not another noise, another voice. He sent a check. And then we waited on God. And we had put a thousand dollar deposit down on four trailers, eleven thousand dollars for four trailers. They were old then. We still
34:48 -  have them and we're still using them. We'll see when we take a tour. And we waited on the Lord. I went to Israel and I met that couple. They said, Art, the day before your check came, we had turned down an offer of five thousand dollars because it came with
35:03 -  strings attached. And we could not in integrity receive it. And the next day, your check, totally unsolicited, came and we knew that you were poorer than the church mice. And we knew that that was God. And we rejoiced. Then I went back and what about our rejoicing?
35:19 -  In time, a ten thousand dollar check came. Exactly the sum needed to finish the payment on these trailers and the Lord gave us his answer. So why am I saying all that? Because it's only by crises of this kind and the explosions that they generate and the stage prepared
35:39 -  for God by which his answer can come from the weakest and youngest member of the community that we can finally come to the agreement of one mind, one heart and one soul, even when our own self-interest is threatened. Now those who cried out the virus had pregnant
35:55 -  wives. And the winter was coming on us and we had not adequate housing and insulation. So why should that money go for a couple that are already comfortable with a Volvo and leather jackets and musical instruments? That's the testing of the Lord. All of that to say that
36:10 -  if we're going to come to one heart, one mind, one soul to speak the one word of the Lord, we're not going to obtain it in any way easier than the one describing. For if we do, I'm suspicious that it's an ecumenical unity and a political and religious enforcement
36:29 -  rather than the sanctifying and true work of God. It's going for the brick rather than the stone. Are we willing for the truth? Notice that this issue, like all issues in the last analysis, is the issue of human want and desire and expediency over and against the issue
36:50 -  of God's glory. The issue wasn't how great is our need and how much better off are they than us. The issue is what is his will and what will glorify him in our obedience and not our self interest. That is ever and always the issue. It was the issue here in the plains
37:09 -  of Shinar and it's the issue with us for the day. It will be the issue at the end. Unless you are, how should I say it, utterly established on the principle of God's glory, you'll miss it. Unless God's glory is a greater moment than your self interest, your need and the
37:30 -  things that are expedient, you'll miss it and justify it as having come from God and for God. Only the jealousy for God's glory will keep you because it has a greater power than the power of self interest. If we have not the jealousy for God's glory, self interest
37:46 -  will invariably overtake us and we will justify it as being in the name of God and for God's glory. So these are rich instructions. Not far from this chapter we have the issue of Abraham
37:59 -  and Lot. Lot is choosing the plane that became Sodom and Gomorrah and his destruction, near destruction and the rise of the people that issued from the illicit relationship with his daughters, what are they called, became the enemies of Israel to this day. The word
38:19 -  father, what's the name of the, Moabites, Moab's father. That came out of an illicit relationship in flight from the Sodom that had been destroyed because he had chosen the plane. What did Abraham choose, who was the senior, one who should have been first to
38:40 -  be consulted and the first to choose, he chose the least desirable, he chose the more difficult, he chose the unknown as against the apparent because he had in his heart that which is Abrahamic and that is the glory of God.
38:55 -  And so we're ready now for chapter 12 and what is chapter 12, but the call of Abraham and what is the call of Abraham? God selecting one man out of an idolatrous nation to be the seed of a nation that would be God's answer to the rebellion of nations. Taking him out
39:16 -  from the place of idolatry of the Chaldeans, who were of the Chaldeans and having him to cross a river and come into a place not desirable and unknown and to follow him where so ever we shall leave him not knowing and to come out of nation, kindred and father's house.
39:37 -  So the call of Abraham, which so few in the Church understand, is God's redemptive response to the rebellion of nations that took place on the plains of Shinnah and set up a Babylonian system that God had to end by confusing language. Chapter 12 is not just a numerical chronological
39:58 -  follow up to chapter 11, it's God's divine redemptive answer to the rebellion of nations by bringing a man out from the nations, get he out from nation, kindred, father's house and follow me in the land that I will show you. And in the process of that following,
40:20 -  Abraham necessarily had to cross the Euphrates River to come into the land. That is to say he had to pass over it, cross through it, because the river was the statement of civilization. River was transportation, river was commerce, river was culture, river was agriculture.
40:39 -  He had to cross over and leave that dependency where men looked down to the river to come into a land whose holy comedy was predicated on early rain and latter rain. And that was not automatic. That was in response to faithfulness and obedience to covenant. A whole other basis
40:59 -  for life in the land was Abraham's call from the beginning and his powers. Can you see the remarkable difference in economy, prosperity? Self interest now and survival is the issue of obedience, following the God who calls into the place that's unknown by which you
41:20 -  follow, not knowing. Complete antithesis of the whole rebellion that is going to be followed because they know, because they want to make a name for themselves. Abraham actually lost his name. In fact, his name was changed from Abram to Abraham. That is the breath of God.
41:45 -  God breathed into him himself and that became his distinctive character as the father of many nations. I will glorify you. I will exalt you. I will give you a name. Look at that in Genesis 12. They sought to make a name for themselves by making a building. God says,
42:08 -  I will make of you a great nation in verse 2. I will bless you, make your name great so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you and the one who curses you. I will curse you. You all are cursed. Abraham went as the Lord had spoken. It seems
42:25 -  like God even acknowledges the validity of nationhood and the greatness of nations. If it is not the result of human ambition in exaltation against God, but is the result of what is given in obedience to God, I will make of you a great nation. Greatness is not
42:47 -  to be despised. It is the issue of your motive and the source. God has not called us to be non-descript and without distinction or just average guys who get by. We are called to great distinction. We are called to be a royal nation, a nation of priests taking our pattern
43:12 -  from the call of Abraham and of Israel, for their call is our call. But the basis by which it is to be obtained is very different from that by which, what's his name, the great hunter and warrior sought to obtain it. I will make of you, but I will. Not you, I will.
43:33 -  You just follow me around, I will make of you. So Abraham departed as the Lord had spoken. Get thee out. The first principle of God's answer to the rebellion of nations is radical separation from the nation, from its ethos, from its mindset, from its motives, from the
43:54 -  whole texture of what makes nations and cities to be in rebellion against God. You must get out. So then what's the meaning for us? Do we have to leave Bemidji and Tampa, Florida and how do we get out while we get in? Because the call of Abraham is our call. We need to
44:15 -  recognize how insidious, subtle and powerful are the things that reside in nations. So if we are a Palestinian living on the West Bank, what is our true and ultimate identity? With whom do we have our greatest affinity? To whom do we owe our greatest loyalty? You
44:39 -  will be a mock man among your own people if you even express or indicate that your loyalty and identification is with the God who is God, who is the God of Israel, even ever so much as he's rejected by his own people. The issue of Abraham and the call is as fearful
44:58 -  now as it was then. But how many of us have departed as the Lord has spoken? How many of us are still insinuated in the nations and in the ethos, E-T-H-O-S, look it up in the dictionary, in the mindset, the values to which the nation subscribes and to which
45:17 -  we are called to be pilgrims, strangers and sojourners in the land. Get me out. Of course the Church is so often Babylon, but Abraham didn't leave until he was called out. And we're not to leave until we're called out either. Because I have observed in 37 years
45:40 -  as a believer that those who are the self-appointed, called out ones who look with disdain upon the Church that is Babylon enter into worse things than what they left. It can become a form of spiritual pride. Abraham did not leave until he was called and we ought not
45:58 -  to leave either. Jesus is a wonderful example as he is in everything. Son of David, Son of Abraham. And yet I find it hard to see in him an Israelite, I mean even a Jew. Yes, I know he's Jewish, but he exhibits something transcendent and heavenly as Paul later was
46:22 -  to do the same, who was a Hebrew of the Hebrews, but he says I have my citizenship in heaven. And yet he could relate to Hebrews, he could relate to Greeks. So there's a way to be in and to be out at the same time, but it requires the deepest identification with the
46:39 -  God who is transparent and is the Lord over all nations. So this is a good point at 12 to break and to end with some prayer. Can you pray in accordance with the things that the Lord has given us this morning and turn what is instruction into something viable
47:01 -  or even something repentant? Can we pray, Lord my separation has not been as total as Abraham's. I've lingered on the wrong side. I like the economy and the benefit and the prosperity that comes from rivers, civilizations. I've been looking down rather than up, whatever.
47:21 -  So let's just look to the Lord and receive a benefit day by day in the things that we're receiving. Ask the Lord for his own prayer for you. His word. God forbid that our prayers, however we're meaning, should become babble.
47:54 -  Thank you, precious God. Oh, Lord. Call us out, my God. Thank you for the pattern of what was in the beginning and your great answer to the rebellion that is still, my God, at the heart of nations that defy you and defy Israel because they sense that somehow that
48:19 -  nation is linked with your governance and they will not have it. So, my God, and Israel itself will not have it and yet you will succeed and the church will be your instrument. But a church of what kind? A separated church. And while they're in, yet are they out. Yes,
48:37 -  while we're yet called to be in Babylon as witness and light, we're yet walking before you. So, Lord, precious God, your word itself severs soul from spirit. It divides even the joints. So let there be, my God, severance, separation, clarity. Show us where our first
49:02 -  loyalty is, my God. We bless you. Help us with a little help by your word and the light by God that has issued. We thank and give you praise in Yeshua's name. Hear the prayers of your saints, Lord, and let this word be effectual to those who have, who have still
49:22 -  lingered, my God, in the world and in the nations in Yeshua's name. Thank you. Thank you, Lord. You're the true son of the Father. Your loyalties, my God, were perfect. You were in, but out. You were of, but transcendent. We thank you, my God. You're an example. You're
49:45 -  a model of separation. Thank you, Lord. You're the God of Abraham. Thank you, my God. And it's on this basis that he shall be the Father of many nations, where they will be like him and reflect his attitude and his spirit and the acknowledgement of the God alone who has
50:06 -  created them and given them the bounds of their habitations. Thank you, Lord. Be merciful, we pray, the nations and their confusion, their babble confusion to this day, in their insubordination to this day, their arrogance, their imperialist designs, their ambitions.
50:26 -  Even the American Indian, the Native American, calling themselves the First Nation is not yet a recognition, my God, of those things that are needful. So do we bless you, precious God, and look to the day when every knee shall bend and every tongue confess that Jesus is
50:46 -  Lord and that your glory shall cover the earth as the waters cover the seas and your praise, my God, shall be to the end of the earth, including Japan. Thank you, my God, including Israel itself. It must be the first model of nations surrendered to God, that it might
51:07 -  be a message to the nations. Thank you, Lord. Oh, work the glory of your will. At the conclusion of the age to which we have been called as privileged, thank you, Lord. The sons and daughters of Abraham. Thank you, Lord.