The Apocalyptic Perspective

00:00 -  I've taken a very healthy walk this afternoon, maybe as much as eight kilometers, at least it feels like eight kilometers. So my legs are feeling a bit strained, but the Lord's strength is perfected in our weakness. So Lord, I offer you up the use of this weak vessel, only dust, but one that you have formed for yourself, even from my mother's womb, as you have each of us.
00:47 -  So come Lord and employ this vessel again, for you are the ultimate high priest and the apostle of our confession, and the spirit of prophecy is the testimony of Jesus. Teach us what that means. Open our understanding, the whole prophetic dimension of the faith, for which Israel is the key. Thank and give you praise in Jesus' name. Amen.
01:27 -  So we started last night out of the prophet Isaiah, who is the ultimate classic prophet, called the Prince of the Prophets. And his testimony and statement is not unique to himself alone, but perfectly in harmony and related to other of the prophets, so that there's a whole prophetic testimony, consistent and integral within itself. But essentially lost to the church, and needs to be reclaimed.
02:23 -  It's a way of seeing, of perceiving not just the issue of Israel, but reality itself. For from the earliest times, the prophet was called a seer. He saw as God sees. And it's even in the book of Isaiah that we read this. My ways are not your ways, nor are my thoughts your thoughts. As great as the distance from heaven to earth, so great is the difference between my thoughts and your thoughts.
03:09 -  So it ought to be a continual concern for us to bring ourselves into alignment with the thoughts of the Lord. It will affect all you're seeing. And it was intended to. Or else we will be subject to the deceptions of the last days. So when you invest yourself in the prophets, you are required to make a choice.
03:47 -  If you continue in the way in which they see things, it will put you in disunity, not only with the world, but with the church. You'll be looked upon increasingly as strange. You're not likely to continue to be fun, because something has come into your spirit, a way of perceiving that affects everything. You have been inducted into another reality, God's reality.
04:38 -  So we spoke about chapter four of Isaiah last night, where the prophet begins with the phrase, on that day. And that comes up continuously in the prophetic testimony on that day. And Paul and the apostles take up the same phrase. It's critical to their whole view of the faith.
05:14 -  There is a day toward which all things are tending. That day is the polar event. And everything needs to be seen in regard to it. It's a day of judgment. It's an apocalyptic day. Destruction, violence, fire. But the day of the Lord's own coming. The intervention of God in human history.
05:51 -  This was foundational to the whole perception of that which was true of the prophets and the apostles. If you remove that one consideration, you remove them. But is it true for us? Are we looking for the day of the Lord? Because Peter speaks of it, that the very anticipation affects our conduct.
06:25 -  Seeing this day, what manner of man ought we to be? Haste in the appearing of the Lord. So this is an apocalyptic view of the faith. Why doesn't the church share it today? Because we have no stomach for apocalyptic endings.
07:00 -  The world is too much with us. And we want it to remain, not end. Because all of our comfort and future is invested in this world. We don't want to anticipate its ending.
07:25 -  And if there are certain injustices and defects in the world, we hope progressively they will be made better. We are humanists more than we are prophetic and apocalyptic. And it has robbed the church of its vitality, its authority, its message.
07:52 -  Yes, we preach the gospel. The benefit you'll receive if you believe. But it's not presented in the context in which it was first spoken from the day of Pentecost. In which it was an invitation to come out from this untoward generation.
08:17 -  Because upon them is coming the impending judgment. This is that which was spoken in the prophet Joel. In the last days, the sky would become covered with smoke and the sun darkened.
08:37 -  When Peter preached the gospel, it was a salvation from coming judgment. Yet 2,000 years distant. And we who are closer to that consummation, do not preach it at all.
09:00 -  Because we do not expect it at all. And so our message has become something else. And the fruit of it has become something less.
09:14 -  It cannot be said of all converts what was said of Paul's. Who turned from their idols to serve the living God. And to wait for his son who comes from heaven.
09:35 -  And will save us from the day of his wrath. Paul's gospel was apocalyptic. And it affected the profound conversion of those who heard it.
09:51 -  So we have lost a great deal. Part of what we are about is to restore. Prophetic seeing.
10:03 -  Apostolic anticipation. The dynamic of urgency that makes the church the church. Even in Innsbruck.
10:16 -  Where everything contends against this kind of understanding. This is the best of all possible worlds. Who wants to anticipate its end.
10:33 -  This is not a sought-after view where you wait for an end. Can we be a Christianity of another kind? That accommodates this world.
10:48 -  And gives us a biblical context and services and benefits. We will be in for shock. As they were in New York City.
11:06 -  And Washington D.C. When the apocalyptic event comes suddenly. When it comes it will come suddenly.
11:18 -  And take us unexpectedly. Who are living in the best of all possible worlds. And don't want to consider such reality.
11:30 -  Until it is thrust upon us. So one reason for the loss of this kind of mindset. Is that we have been tempered by the world.
11:45 -  And the second is the loss of the mystery of Israel itself. Israel is set in an apocalyptic context. It has to do with the end of the age.
12:02 -  The coming of the Lord. And judgments that will come upon it. So when we have lost Israel we have lost this key.
12:14 -  And even the way that we view Israel is less than God's intentions. So you will appreciate the difficulty of my task. And pray for strength to deliver it.
12:34 -  And to contend myself for this faith. Because what was so alive in our spirit in the early morning hours. And was for us so compelling a reality.
12:51 -  If only we could have spoken at then. Has by four o'clock in the afternoon greatly altered. It is not quite as imperative as it was this morning.
13:08 -  It is not quite as imperative as it was this morning. So we ourselves must contend for the faith once given the saints. Or you lose it.
13:24 -  So in the verse that was quoted yesterday in chapter four of Isaiah. That begins with the phrase on that day. Often spoken of as the day of the Lord, the Lord's day, the day of judgment, the day of wrath.
13:43 -  The branch of the Lord shall be beautiful and glorious. And the fruit of the land shall be the pride and glory of the survivors of Israel. I don't know what word you have in German for the English survivors.
14:07 -  What do you have? Those that have escaped is also to be found in English translation. Escape from what?
14:17 -  From the apocalyptic violence that we describe. The judgments of God. And elect remnants.
14:29 -  That Jesus himself speaks about in Matthew 24. When he speaks of the days that are to come on that day. That there will be a trouble unlike anything the nation has ever previously known or will again know.
14:48 -  And if that time is not cut short, no flesh will survive or escape. But for the elect's sake, a surviving remnant, that time will be cut short. So we see a remarkable consistency through all the prophets and into the apostles and the testimony of Jesus himself.
15:21 -  It's called the time of Jacob's trouble. The final calamity of Israel's history. Assifting for a surviving remnant.
15:37 -  Who are the elect of God. Who escape from that judgment. Some of those who disagree with me say that this time has already taken place.
15:49 -  It was the Nazi Holocaust. So present Israel has nothing to fear for its future. But if we look at this text carefully, it is clear that it is something yet future.
16:10 -  As terrible as the Nazi Holocaust was. This greater trouble is yet future. How do you know that brother?
16:25 -  Because it is clearly set in the context of Israel and in Jerusalem. Flee to the mountains of Judah. Pray that it doesn't come on the Sabbath.
16:39 -  The whole context is clearly armies on the borders of Jerusalem. Matthew 24, Luke 21. So it couldn't be the Holocaust.
16:53 -  The Holocaust was entirely set in the context of Europe. Here's something that clearly has its inception in the land itself. Which therefore requires the presence of Jews within the land.
17:08 -  And those tensions that will result with its neighbors because of its presence. Establishing a conflict that only an antichrist will seem to resolve. That's why Jesus can quote Daniel.
17:34 -  When you see the desolation of abomination spoken in Daniel. That speaks of an antichrist figure in Jerusalem. Demanding the worship of Jews.
17:51 -  Who had already brought them a kind of false peace. So this is more than I can possibly communicate now. I'm just saying this much to begin to open your understanding.
18:11 -  Of a remarkable context expressed throughout all scriptures and validated by Jesus himself. And in his own words, if this that is to come will eclipse all previous times of Jewish suffering. What must be the magnitude of it?
18:42 -  So I believe that this is future. And though it has its inception in Jerusalem and in Israel, it will affect Jews worldwide. Because it's called the time of Jacob's trouble.
19:02 -  And we know that Jacob is proliferated through many nations. And God says in the book of Amos, I will sift you through all nations. Sift, shake.
19:24 -  That not so much as one kernel will fall to the ground. It's the final time of sifting for all Jewry, world Jewry. But it will sift the nations also through which they pass.
19:42 -  And sift the church in the nations. Which is why when we read Matthew 25, Jesus now established as the King,
19:53 -  separates the sheep from the goats one by one. Among the Gentiles of all nations. On the basis of one question only.
20:11 -  What did you do for the least of these, my brethren? That would not be a valid question to ask Gentiles in the world. If they did not have occasion to see the least of these, his brethren.
20:29 -  So there's a final sifting of both Israel, the church, and the world. Those who have seen the least of these, my brethren, those who have failed to see and identify with Jews in that distressed condition,
20:55 -  suffer a terrible eternal judgment. But those that extend mercy, he calls them the righteous.
21:08 -  And come and inherit the kingdom prepared for you. So this is the crudest outline of this last day's scenario. But one with which I live continually.
21:30 -  And speak in all nations in which I travel. And all continents, including Africa. So that when I was with my brother in South Africa,
21:44 -  facing an audience of Christian Zionists, who look at me in a hostile way, and want so much to believe in the success of present Israel,
22:02 -  that they would not have to face the kind of catastrophe of which Jesus speaks, and the possible expulsion and flight again into the nations, that I could say to them, pray for me.
22:20 -  Tomorrow I go to Zimbabwe and Zambia to prepare for Jews in flight out of South Africa, from Pretoria and Cape Town,
22:36 -  who will have their backs to the sea, and will be required to pass through your nations. In your dirt roads,
22:49 -  with your deep pock marks and holes. And if you don't take them in, there will be no Jewish survival.
23:02 -  Someone told me that there is actually a route from Cape Town to Cairo, that goes through the spine of Africa, and it has a special name, do you remember?
23:18 -  Something like the Exodus Route. And I believe that Jews will find themselves upon it. And having been in Egypt,
23:33 -  and in some of the primitive places close to Ethiopia, where I was the first Jew that they had ever seen, I could tell them, prepare to receive my kinsmen.
23:51 -  For God will yet bring his son out of Egypt a final time. So there will be survivors of Israel. Those who will escape.
24:14 -  Those who will be left in Zion and remain in Jerusalem. Who will be called holy. That's not an honorific title.
24:28 -  It's not a spiritual condition to which they have grown by process of change. It's the very nature of their God.
24:41 -  Conferred and given them, as it is given us, in union with him,
24:51 -  in baptism, in death and resurrection. They'll be holy because he is holy.
24:59 -  There is no other way of obtaining holiness than to appropriate the very life of God himself. And except that there be Jews who have come into this reality,
25:16 -  how shall they bless all the families of the earth? For that which was spoken to Abraham must have its final consummation.
25:30 -  That which was spoken to Abraham must have its final consummation, a final fulfillment.
25:40 -  That out of your seed will be a people who will bless all the families of the earth. Clearly we have not yet experienced this.
25:54 -  But we will. Through those who survive and escape. And are called holy.
26:03 -  There will be a nation of priests and a light unto the world. And teach the nations the difference between the sacred and the profane.
26:13 -  So will God's word be fulfilled. Which has to be fulfilled. Or how then is God God?
26:23 -  For the issue of God, his ability to fulfill his own word. Through a people who do not even desire to be chosen. And have no concept of themselves
26:34 -  as being called to be a holy people or a nation of priests and priests. And who do not have any sense of being a holy nation,
26:43 -  a holy priesthood, a light unto the world. Whose present ambition is to be like all other nations. And yet God must succeed.
26:56 -  But how far must he go in order to succeed? Is the issue of the last days. And the sifting through all nations.
27:10 -  So Isaiah speaks of a judgment that must come in Jerusalem itself. In verse 4.
27:19 -  In verse 4 Isaiah speaks of a judgment that must come in Jerusalem itself. To cleanse the city of its own blood stains
27:28 -  by a spirit of judgment and a spirit of burning. And through the spirit of the judgment
27:37 -  and the spirit of the burning. And anyone who has been following the recent events of Israel and of Jerusalem.
27:46 -  Who has visited the city and the nation. Who has visited the city and the nation. Realize clearly that it is not a place
27:56 -  that is appropriate for the coming of the king. Realize clearly that it is not a place that is appropriate for the coming of the king.
28:05 -  It will be his sanctuary and his dwelling. It will be his sanctuary and his dwelling. When it has been made appropriate for him who is holy.
28:13 -  When it has been made appropriate for him who is holy. In a judgment that comes through burning. In a judgment that comes through burning.
28:22 -  And then the Lord will create over the whole site of Mount Zion and then the Lord will create over the whole site of Mount Zion a cloud by day and smoke and the shining
28:30 -  of a flaming fire by night. Over his gatherings a cloud created by day and smoke and the shining of a flaming fire by night.
28:37 -  And over all the glory there will be a canopy. And over all the glory there will be a canopy. It will serve as a pavilion, a shade by day from the heat
28:46 -  and a refuge in the shelter from the storm. And a roof will serve as a shade in the shade during the day before the heat.
28:55 -  Is that poetry? Is that the inspired imagination of a prophet? Or is this a reference to a literal conclusion
29:04 -  that will come? Or is this a reference to a literal conclusion that God's presence in that holy city
29:14 -  will be marked by a pillar of fire and by night and cloud by day? That God's presence in this city
29:23 -  will be marked by a pillar of fire and by night and cloud by day? Are we the kind of Bible students we are required to be?
29:31 -  To know whether what is spoken is literal or poetic but if this is to be a refuge a shade by day
29:50 -  and a refuge and a shelter then clearly it's speaking of something actual. And if it does not exist now
30:01 -  then it must be for a future time. And if it does not exist now then it must be for a future time.
30:10 -  When is that future time? After he has purged the blood of Jerusalem by a spirit of burning
30:19 -  and saved a holy people. Then he will create this statement over his own presence
30:30 -  which he calls a glory. It's a Shekinah glory, the light of God day and night
30:43 -  but it's not a glory that he will share with any flesh. So all that you admire in present Israel and is the basis for your hope for its success.
30:57 -  Jewish ability and all of the other kinds of things that make them an exceptional people are the very things that cannot stand in the presence of God's glory.
31:14 -  So take your pick. Choose. What do you prefer?
31:24 -  A city and a nation appropriate to the accomplishment of a Jewish people? One that in which we could admire and even boast? Or a purged city fitted for his glory
31:42 -  over which a Shekinah glory is a permanent presence that all the world will have to acknowledge because it's actual and visible
32:00 -  that God reigns out of Zion and has chosen Zion and purged Zion and fitted it as his locus, his center
32:15 -  that all nations shall come up to Jerusalem to honor this God, pay homage to him and to the people whom he has saved and rescued
32:30 -  and established as holy and out of whose nation his government goes forth. The issue of God's government is the issue.
32:49 -  And as the church does not expect the day of the Lord does not desire to consider apocalyptic things as lost the mystery of Israel
33:09 -  and sees it only as a hopeful state to be established to that same degree we have lost the understanding of the kingdom. There's little or no actual expectation of a kingdom come.
33:29 -  Although it's the one prayer that Jesus taught his disciples, pray this. Thy kingdom come on earth as it is in heaven. We do not pray it, we do not expect it.
33:46 -  We have even transmuted the word kingdom to mean something less than something other. The kingdom of God is within you. The kingdom of God is within you.
34:00 -  Or the church is the expression of the kingdom. Yes, there's some truth in that. But not at the price of obliterating the greater truth.
34:13 -  The actual rule of God over all nations established as king spoken of in chapter 2 of Isaiah.
34:28 -  That in the last days the mountain of the house of the Lord will be established as the highest of the mountains
34:39 -  and shall be raised above the hills, all other lesser governments. And all the nations shall stream to it. Let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob.
34:54 -  That he might teach us his ways and we might walk in his paths. That's government. That's rule.
35:07 -  That's the benevolent wisdom of God on how to live. Because even the word government needs to be rescued. Because what does it mean today?
35:19 -  With men like Clinton and others of a comparable kind. That are self-seeking, coarse, crude men.
35:31 -  Seeking their own advancement, their own pleasure, their own fame. There's a disrespect even for government. Something that we have to patiently tolerate.
35:47 -  But we don't expect an enlightened rule. That is actually righteous. Just, equitable, merciful, gracious.
36:04 -  That is a model to teach us how to live. That can only come through God. Human government is at best a grace of provision from God until he comes.
36:23 -  But when he comes, he comes as king. He'll be king in the same city in which he was crucified. Where he was mocked and over his head on the cross in three languages.
36:40 -  Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews. King of the Jews. That's a mock. That's a travesty.
36:55 -  That's to demean God, to make him less than what he is. And they suffered that humiliation. But in the very city in which he bore that mocking taunt.
37:14 -  He will indeed become king. Not only of Israel, but through Israel to all nations. For God has promised David that upon your throne
37:28 -  will come a son from out of your loins and he will rule over the house of Israel forever. And when the angel came to Mary, what did the angel tell her?
37:43 -  You shall call his name Jesus and he will rule from the throne of his father David over the house of Israel forever.
37:54 -  Oh dear saints, you cannot understand the issue of Israel if you forsake the issue of his kingdom. And that's exactly what we have lost.
38:11 -  And Israel itself has no consciousness. That it is called to be the heart of a kingdom. Well, as we read in Psalm 2,
38:22 -  out of Zion shall go forth the law and the word of the Lord out from Jerusalem. I've set my king on the holy hill of Zion
38:35 -  and given him the nations for his inheritance. So we must restore to the church this lost content. So what we must do is restore this lost content
38:49 -  of the theocratic intention of God. His rule from the place where he has appointed it. Not one that we would have chosen,
39:02 -  but that he has chosen. Zion, and called it a holy hill. And must have in that land a holy people.
39:14 -  And must have in that land a holy people. How much do you think the nations will appreciate his rule? How much do you think the nations will appreciate his rule?
39:36 -  Will they take delight in going up to Jerusalem annually and paying homage to that king and to that nation? Not at all.
39:48 -  How does Psalm 2 begin? Why do the heathen rage? Foam at the mouth.
40:00 -  They're delirious with distemper. Where they will not have him to rule over them. Because the kings and the rulers take thought together.
40:11 -  Against the Lord and against his anointed. To break their bonds asunder. But the Lord holds them in contempt.
40:23 -  But the Lord holds them in contempt. I've set my king on the holy hill of Zion. Kiss the son, lest he be angry against you.
40:35 -  You can foam at the mouth all you want. But to me every knee will bow and every tongue confess. That Jesus Christ is Lord.
40:46 -  To the glory of God the Father. Over all nations. The nations are in rebellion, dear saints.
40:58 -  Full of self-will. Their own autonomy, their own desire. And they don't want to obey this king.
41:09 -  And the kings and the rulers take thought against the Lord and his anointed. We know who the kings are. But who are the rulers?
41:21 -  The invisible spirit realm. The principalities and the powers of the air. That influence, jerk and manipulate nations.
41:32 -  Even the greatest of them. Germany. Overnight.
41:43 -  Wearing the skull and crossbones on the insignia of the officers' hats. Controverting its whole civilization. Overnight.
41:55 -  By burning books. And then burning men. Annihilating the people of Israel.
42:06 -  Because the powers of darkness have seized possession of the entire nation. No longer content to manipulate, but to possess. And if they can possess Germany.
42:18 -  What hope do they have? They have no hope. And if they can possess Germany.
42:29 -  What hope for any nation? When these powers have their interests threatened. And know that they have but a short time.
42:41 -  And want to defeat the purposes of God. For when he will rule from Zion. They are finished.
42:52 -  Then their wrong rule is over. Because they are the Gods of this age. Who want to keep the rule of God.
43:04 -  When they return to Zion. Then God will say, I will set a prince over you, a king. Even David.
43:16 -  The greater David. King over Israel. If there is indeed an Israel over which he can be king.
43:27 -  And is not totally annihilated. As the powers of darkness have come so close to succeeding. And will attempt again in the last day.
43:39 -  And will attempt again in the last day. And will attempt again in the last day. And will attempt again in the last day.
44:07 -  Everything for Isaiah began with his vision of the king. Everything for Isaiah began with his vision of the king. And once you see the king in his glory.
44:18 -  Once you see the king high and lifted up. Once you see him as exalted. Everything else falls into place.
44:30 -  Your view of Israel. Your view of the church. Your view of suffering. That precedes the glory.
44:41 -  But he is not going to come into this glory and fullness without there being an opposition. But he is not going to come into this glory and fullness without there being an opposition. But you are prepared to bear it.
44:53 -  Your whole view has been altered. Because you see the king. And that's why chapter 6 is the key to Isaiah.
45:05 -  He saw the Lord high and lifted up. He saw the Lord high and lifted up. He says in verse 5, my eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts.
45:16 -  And to see the Lord and the king as he is is to see ourselves. And to see the Lord and the king as he is is to see ourselves. A man of unclean lips.
45:28 -  In the midst of the people of unclean lips. This is true revelation. This is true revelation.
45:39 -  Of the truth of God and of ourselves. Until we come to this there is no truth in it. And that's why his true ministry begins with this revelation.
45:51 -  And that's why his true ministry begins with this revelation. He saw the king in the first verse sitting on a throne, high and lofty. He saw the king in the first verse sitting on a throne, high and lofty.
46:02 -  He saw the king in the first verse sitting on a throne, high and lofty. And everything is to be viewed from that point. Including Israel.
46:14 -  For destiny. For suffering. For the end of Israel. And when he sees, he receives his commission.
46:30 -  And when he sees, he receives his commission. Who shall go for me? Here am I, send me.
46:42 -  And after God purges his mouth, by a coal from off the altar, he can be sent.
46:54 -  And sent to do what? Go and say to this people in verse 9, keep listening but do not understand.
47:06 -  Keep looking but do not see. Make the mind of this people dull, stop their ears, shut their eyes. So that they may not look with their eyes and listen with their ears and understand with their minds.
47:18 -  So that they may not look with their eyes and listen with their ears and understand with their minds. And turn and be healed. Strange.
47:29 -  You want to be a prophet? But what you are speaking is not to bring blessing but to bring judgment. Will you be obedient?
47:41 -  So to speak? That your word constitutes an event for your hearers? Not to bless them but to judge them?
47:52 -  This is a frightening call. And I do not think that Isaiah would have had a stomach for it. It is not gratifying to serve God in that way.
48:04 -  You will be misunderstood and condemned. You will suffer rejection. Death.
48:16 -  Who wants to hear such a word? And who would be obedient to bring it? Except one who has first seen the king.
48:29 -  Isaiah was obedient to this commission. How do you know that? Because Israel today, world Jewry, is still under that judgment.
48:41 -  I have been a missionary to the Jews for four years. That is how I began when the Lord took me out of public school teaching and made me a missionary to the Jews.
48:52 -  And was the director of the mission in New York City in my last year. I know the frustration. I know the defeat.
49:04 -  Near and yet so far. The doors to the Jewish community are closed. And if you have access, they do not hear.
49:15 -  They are full of their own wisdom and knowledge. Such a contentious spirit. Their ears are stuck.
49:27 -  Their mind is dull. They cannot see, they cannot hear, they cannot believe. They are still under judgment.
49:38 -  But brother, you can say it. Yes, Paul says there is a remnant in every generation. But still as a nation we are under judgment.
49:50 -  And so the prophet says, how long, Lord? Because he knows that judgment is not God's final word. It is a necessary preliminary.
50:02 -  It is a necessary preliminary. It is a necessary preliminary. And out of judgment will come restoration.
50:13 -  And so he rightly says, how long? And now we have to immerse ourselves in God's answer. For we are still waiting for this answer.
50:25 -  Until the cities, why waste and without inhabitants, until the cities, why waste and without inhabitants, until the cities, why waste and without inhabitants,
50:36 -  houses without people, the land is utterly desolate, until the Lord sends everyone far away,
50:48 -  and vast is the forsaken places in the midst of the land. Which land? The present land, the land of Israel.
50:59 -  The present land of Israel. So that if we understand correctly, there is something that must yet come upon the people in the land.
51:11 -  In order for the judgment to be completed, until the until of God will come, that the eyes will be opened,
51:23 -  that the ears are stopped, that the hearts will be given understanding, that they might be healed and be saved.
51:34 -  And what is the statement, what are we waiting for, that has not yet taken place, and must take place in the land?
51:46 -  Desolation and ruin. Until the cities, why waste and without inhabitants, Haifa, Tel Aviv, Jerusalem, Tiberias,
51:57 -  Ascalon, all the present cities of Israel. That's my belief, that's my prophetic understanding,
52:09 -  and the text itself compels such an understanding, because we see that this is the people whose eyes are still closed. The nation is still under this judgment,
52:20 -  until this greater judgment falls upon the land itself, cities without inhabitants,
52:32 -  left in ruins. The land is utterly desolate. The Lord sends everyone far away.
52:44 -  Vast is the emptiness and forsaken places in the midst of it. I believe that is future and near, and all of the present disturbances in Israel
52:55 -  are preparation for this coming disaster. We need to anticipate, for if he's going to send them far away from the land,
53:07 -  is this not the sifting of which Amos speaks throughout all nations? But it begins with this catastrophe in Israel
53:18 -  and affects Jews worldwide until finally the redeemed of the Lord shall return to Zion, with mourning and sorrow fading away,
53:30 -  and everlasting joy upon their heads. Isaiah himself speaks this. He says,
53:41 -  Chapter 35, the very last verse, Isaiah 51,
53:53 -  in the last verse, the redeemed of the Lord shall return to Zion. A remnant shall return,
54:05 -  those that are preserved, those who have been sown. This is the drama that concludes the age.
54:16 -  And I'll say more about it tomorrow, but I want to say now in conclusion for this project, there will be no return at all.
54:28 -  There will be no survival at all. There will be no return at all. There will be no survival at all.
54:39 -  Even for a remnant, because they will be pursued unto death by the powers of darkness
54:51 -  who want to eradicate them as a people, that there will be no return to Zion and the coming of their king.
55:02 -  It will be because of you, or it will not end at all. A remnant will save the remnant,
55:14 -  not the majority of Christians today, who will not want to extend themselves, who will not want to be implicated with this people,
55:26 -  will not want to identify and take the risk, because they will be hated and despised and all that. And for you to take them in and get me,
55:37 -  is to imperil your life and your family. And why should you do it? What did they ever do for you?
55:49 -  Don't they deserve what they're getting? Only a remnant will understand and be ready to sacrifice
56:00 -  so that they would come as the redeemed of the Lord, no matter what the cost to ourselves, because their return is his coming.
56:12 -  And his coming is his kingdom and his kingdom is his glory. And that's the reason for our salvation.
56:23 -  And now let's talk of my sin to have part in their redemption. You righteous, enter the kingdom prepared for you.
56:35 -  For only the righteous do not count their lives as they are unto themselves. I will love what God loves when they are otherwise hated in all the world.
56:47 -  You're hearing the word to set in motion your preparation, both physical and spiritual,
56:58 -  that you might take them in. I want to pray. So Lord, is the time passed
57:17 -  when we can no longer enjoy the privilege of preaching my sermon, for we take such a delight
57:29 -  in expositing your word. And we love the intricacies of your word and its richness. But are we so close to the end
57:41 -  that we need something now much more radical a preparation and understanding for realities that will soon be upon us
57:52 -  for which we have had little anticipation. So I ask your blessing, Lord, upon this handful of your people
58:04 -  a remnant from within the remnant a remnant from within the remnant a remnant from within the remnant
58:15 -  a representative of several nations that you will set in motion by this word that preparation that will serve in good stead
58:27 -  in the day of Jacob's trouble that they might be saved out of it and be restored as the redeemed of the Lord
58:38 -  as the redeemed of the Lord with everlasting joy upon their head. Bless the church of Innsbruck
58:50 -  the church of Austria the German speaking church given a final opportunity
59:02 -  to be to the Jews at the end Bless this word. It's not a pretty word, it's a hard word
59:14 -  but a necessary word. Put iron in our soul to be able to hear and receive and bear it
59:26 -  and lead us, my God, in those things that are needful that when that day comes suddenly thank you for the privilege of these days
59:37 -  open our ears, open our hearts, open our understandings for what all the prophets have all along spoken we thank and give you praise
59:49 -  for our privilege to be participants in this fulfillment in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.