The Life and the Law

00:00 -  from Acts 24, 16, the conscience void of offense toward God and toward men. And he writes, God's commands are given to the life of His Son in us, consequently to the human nature in which His Son has been formed.
00:14 -  That is altogether a novel statement. Never thought about that, never considered about the life of His Son in us. The command is given to Him who resides in us,
00:30 -  maybe because we ourselves would not be able either to rightly perceive God's commanded requirements or to obey them. But it's spoken to the Son, the life of the Son in us is a
00:43 -  holy fresh way of understanding this relatedness with God. The reason I'm so intrigued with this is that I'm so caught up now with the issue of law and having a rabbi who is the finest expression,
00:57 -  not some schlock guy who takes a stab at it, but I mean a consistent, practiced, fully devoted life of obeying the law as he understands that that is given commandments and 613 of them that you have the knots on your talus
01:15 -  to remind you that there are 613 plus who knows the infinite number of varieties of interpretation and additional applications that have come from rabbinical renderings. So what's the alternative to living a
01:28 -  life that is set about with a hedge of so many compliances and laws? He asked me if I had kept the law during the Passover season, in other words that I eat matzah,
01:40 -  that I cease from leavened bread. So I had to admit I essentially failed. I took a stab at it. I said you know I came to realize that I had to live in a believing community
01:54 -  of a law-keeping kind in order to fulfill that. Living by myself in isolation and meeting with people and friends through the course of those days who are not observant, you necessarily are going
02:06 -  to fail. They're not going to require you and you eat out with them and when they bring something to the house, one thing or another. I said it made me realize that in order
02:15 -  to obey the law, law as a basis for life requires to be in the midst of an observing community which is indeed how he lives. His whole community has been constructed by an orthodox builder and the former
02:30 -  model home is now the synagogue. So that when I was with him on my first visit, he disappeared at about 7 38 in the morning. Where did he go? He walked to that house which is the synagogue
02:41 -  and he's there three times a day when he's home and of course under Shabbat you don't drive to the synagogue. That would be a violation. You walk and you have access. So I'm being introduced to
02:52 -  serious Judaism and men who are very serious and don't feel themselves to be in any bondage in obedience to the law. Look upon it even as privilege and yet we know that God has brought us
03:04 -  into it and invites us to another dimension beyond regulations and even the commands which he has given. Paul speaks of it in another way as instruction, as our teacher to bring us into
03:20 -  Christ. So I'm reading this coming out of that context. His commands are difficult but immediately we obey they become divinely easy.
03:33 -  Consciousness is the faculty in me which attaches itself to the highest I know and tells me what the highest I know demands that I do. It is the eye of the soul which looks
03:45 -  out either towards God or toward what it regards as the highest and therefore conscience records differently in different people. If I'm in the habit of steadily facing myself with God
03:57 -  my conscience will always introduce God's perfect law and indicate what I should do. So here is in one statement an alternative to the observance of orthodox rabbinical practice that is based on relationship
04:15 -  that has to do with steadily facing myself with God. I would say that my rabbi wouldn't even think in these terms because this suggests that there's a possible relationship
04:29 -  of such immediacy and consciousness of God in a personal intimate way that it affects your conscience and the way you determine what needs to be done and what's good and what is
04:40 -  right or to be avoided. He would call this phantasmal. This is make-believe. What we have is concrete, clear and it enjoys the
04:53 -  sanction of the sages through many generations. This sounds like copping out and assuming the kind of relationship but of course we know that Oswald Chambers is not a cop out.
05:08 -  So if I'm in the habit of steadily facing myself with God my conscience will always introduce God's perfect law and indicate what I should do. That means that that law is variable
05:23 -  and it's not fixed. I mean of course there are fixed commandments but there are details of life what do they call them? Not expediencies.
05:37 -  Exigencies, excuse the language, but you English majors of course will know it. Exigency is just the unexpected untoward thing that comes up that requires a decision or response where you've not been that way
05:51 -  before. You've never been faced with quite a situation like this that requires some kind of response or obedience but you can't consult some book of war to find the answer for this particular
06:03 -  situation. So those who were here in the morning I think this morning's prayer time we even prayed that such a crisis would come to our Rabbi. That he would be faced with a new kind of
06:13 -  situation of a kind in which the code of law and his knowledge of it which is extensive being a fifth generation Talmudic scholar cannot provide an answer. He himself has got to give the
06:26 -  answer in the predicament or the crisis of the moment out either of his knowledge of God or the sense inwardly of what is right but it's not based on what is stipulated but on what is inward.
06:39 -  We need to know these things. We're coming to a historic clash almost of kingdoms more than that. It's a clash of cosmic ways of perceiving reality and righteousness and how to act and conduct
06:53 -  oneself in life. So we need to have a sense of what that what is represented in their Judaism at its best and what it is to which we ourselves are called and maybe
07:07 -  the Jewish community has not had any challenge to it because how many as well chambers have they met? How many occasions have they had to fight to see men and women who know God in such a way
07:18 -  and face him steadily and constantly that whatever the situation however unexpected there's an inward spirit ability to give an answer in a way that would be pleasing
07:30 -  to God and satisfy the requirement of that law. In fact it's so great it led me to the path of salvation. It was that very episode in the first reading of the Gospel of John
07:40 -  as an unbelieving atheist aboard the deck of a tramp steamer as you know some of you on my way from Italy to Greece that I was reading the New Testament and reading that very episode and when Jesus was caught in that
07:51 -  predicament of crisis in which by every reckoning he said he came to fulfill the law not to destroy it. The law says that's by stoning to a woman caught in the act and yet something
08:02 -  in your inner man cries out for something beyond the penalty of the law but what could the man say? He's caught by his own words he's come to fulfill not to destroy and he bent over the earth I had my
08:15 -  finger in the book I was afraid to read on. My heart was pounding the sweat was oozing out of the palm of my hand this terrible predicament what would I do if I were faced with it and
08:25 -  as a fact I was faced with it because I'm caught in the act with that woman for the first time in reading of her dilemma I see my own that what we modern men have dismissed as poetry and love and
08:38 -  the one thing that comes along in a moment of time you have to seize the fact that you're married or you know that's a secondary thing. I was an adulterer and I deserve the penalty for the first
08:48 -  time I'm recognizing it so what issues from Jesus at that moment is not just academic it's life or death and the breaking my brain to think what can the man say after having said he's come to fulfill
09:00 -  and not to destroy and then finally with a sigh of desperation exasperation there is no human answer. I opened the book again Jesus bent over the dirt
09:12 -  these men I can just understand their frenzy and their fury at what he represented because he's challenging a whole mode of being by law that says this is the penalty
09:25 -  for someone caught dead in the act and if you're righteous you'll stand for that penalty what are you going to say now we got you hot shot you who you give off vibes that threaten us and our system and then he
09:38 -  looks up and he speaks that let him who's without sin cast the first stone where did that come from that was so holy so beyond human conceiving that the men who heard that
09:54 -  turned away was it from the oldest to the youngest they all were convicted on the spot and one by one they all left and the woman is left utterly alone where are your accusers they've gone
10:05 -  but what he what was being worked there is exactly what Oswald Chambers is describing because Jesus himself had this relationship with the father because he steadily faced the father
10:15 -  because he moved from the thing that was inward and not external the father was able to quicken an answer beyond human wisdom itself
10:25 -  and that's the alternative to living by prescriptions and stipulated code of law so the point is when this is indicated will I obey I have to make an effort to keep my conscience so sensitive that I walk
10:40 -  without offense I should be living in such perfect sympathy with God son that in every circumstance the spirit of my mind is renewed and I make out at once what is the good
10:53 -  and acceptable and perfect will of God and that's where I got zapped this morning I knew that it was somewhere in Romans and I found it and I read over and we can do it now
11:09 -  Romans 12 2 because it seems to be at the heart of this posture so just beginning you know 9 to 11 of course is the great statement the mystery of Israel and the church
11:26 -  and then the first two verses that follow at a time when there are no chapter designations before the convenience and it's just one continuum unbroken continuum of Paul I beseech you therefore brethren by the
11:41 -  mercies of God that you present your bodies are living sacrifice holy acceptable unto God which is your reasonable service I'm reading today and wicking up different commentaries
11:54 -  that was you may have it in your own edition the word reasonable is really better translated rational reason not any meaning anymore I can consider this reasonably
12:07 -  in the light of the mercies that have come that have affected your salvation this is the rational way that you ought to be responding to make your body a living sacrifice because it's Jesus making his body a
12:25 -  living sacrifice that is the mercy of God toward you so having received that now you extend and express that out of gratitude for his mercy extend mercy
12:37 -  and through your body because we don't live in a glass house in some phantasmal spirituality but in the practicality of the grit of life with people on the earth
12:51 -  that requires a bodily expression of your inward virtue your morality this is a moral situation moral statement and be not conformed to this world here comes the punch line
13:07 -  but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is the good and acceptable and perfect will of God you guys have to help in this from what I am gathering from that reading is
13:22 -  that for us to determine in any given moment and our life is the sum of all of our moments and our moments are going to become increasingly weighty and significant and ponderous
13:34 -  and full of consequence one way or the other as we move to the end of the age that in any given moment we have to prove or test or evaluate sense discern what is
13:50 -  that good and acceptable and perfect will of God so what a remarkable premium this puts on the life of the believer that judaism is is a conformity with an accepted
14:05 -  history and code of law regulation and requirement and you become a student to learn what each of those stipulations are how they have been understood how they have been
14:19 -  discussed by rabbis how they have given their present applications you learn it in order to do it the great emphasis is on study and when i went into the yeshiva with
14:31 -  this rabbi i saw three thousand men they were not kids waiting to graduate two-thirds of them are married and i said well how long is the program he says there's no stipulated length study is a lifetime's
14:44 -  preoccupation well how do you get your degree there are no degrees they're not they're not going to school to receive a credential they're going to school to learn torah to learn the law
14:56 -  in all of its ramification and its application and it's a lifelong undertaking the great emphasis is learning and knowledge and mastery and obedience doing that
15:10 -  we need to know this is the most jews may be few in number but that system of what they are about and what they represent how shall i say it is one of the most ponderous
15:22 -  realities that exist in the world and though there are only a small number of jews who are that observant other jews are affected by that complying minority and then even it goes out into the world like
15:39 -  resonances like waves it affects things even to those who are not even religiously oriented so there's something going on that is so foundational to to judaism and has been so
15:53 -  fought with meaning that it behooves us to understand it because our last day's conflict with this people will have to do with
16:05 -  these issues either meeting jews who actually subscribe to this and do it or jews who are not as observant but look to the rabbis as being the source of understanding of wisdom and if our rabbis have not seen
16:18 -  your christ and the truth of it then we don't even have to bother ourselves to examine those issues i don't have a word for what what i'm sensing in the inner man of the
16:28 -  magnitude of what is represented in what we call judaism versus christianity in two mindsets two modes of apprehending life and reality and determining how to live life morally
16:41 -  which is to say how to live and that's what life is all about and so they look upon us can you imagine with such that disrespect because historically what has been performed in the name of
16:55 -  christianity and especially as it has affected jews in no way gives any evidence that it can even compete with the high moral ground of law observant
17:05 -  jews and our antinomianism our our anti-law mentality in the name of grace it shows us to be so slovenly so slack that our most renowned ministers
17:21 -  fall into the into the vilest forms of sin and and treat it lightly and feel pressed if they're required to cease their ministries for three months as if the world can
17:33 -  do without their performance so they see this and they know this and so what can we say like systems in collision
17:44 -  and so all of that rest on this first be not conformed to the world so i'm asking how do you discern in any given moment what is the good acceptable and perfect will of God
18:00 -  if you're not functioning according to that which is stipulated established as a code of law and you have got to act in good conscience before God in any moment how do you discern
18:15 -  in that moment what is the good and acceptable will Paul is suggesting that it has to do with not not being conformed to this world
18:26 -  but being transformed by the renewing of your mind so evidently if we're slack in being transformed and we're settling into a certain mode of being and being
18:44 -  conformed rather than transformed we will not have the faculty to discern or to evaluate or to sense what is the good and present perfect mind of the lord this is a remarkable statement of requirement you can't
19:00 -  um employ something that was the mind of the lord last week or a comparable situation and apply it here as if that would be appropriate that might have been the mind of the lord in that
19:13 -  moment and under that given situation but what is it in this moment is a certain immediacy that is in keeping with us world chambers about keeping your heart
19:25 -  uh God steadily facing steadily toward God