The Holocaust as Judgment 1 of 3

00:00 -  Thanks for a beautiful introduction. Boy, we've been praying along those lines because God's lament was that the people should hear the voice of His prophets, whatever that means, some distinctive note that is more
00:21 -  than man. And if they'll not hear God's word, may they hear His intonation. And if they don't hear that, then it's suras.
00:32 -  Everybody know that word? Trouble, calamity, disaster. And that's our subject tonight, not a pleasant one, and one that seems to be wholly unrelated
00:45 -  to Cleveland, Ohio and this lovely little locale that is so peaceful and undisturbed. So I have to bestir myself to remember the visits to Dachau and other concentration camps and places of annihilation that I have had occasion to visit and my long preoccupation
01:10 -  with this subject. I knew even as an atheist that the whole issue of the human condition was to be found somehow in the mass burials of the Holocaust victims, that an event as epical as that had everything
01:30 -  to say about our condition. I didn't know that it had everything to say about God, because at that time I did not but I would say that I was set on course by the magnitude of the calamity that eventuated
01:44 -  in the revelation of Himself. And I'm believing that God is yet wanting people to come to the knowledge of Him, if not through love and truth, through the painful issues of calamity and suffering, and for
02:01 -  which reason we can brace ourselves to expect yet another and final Holocaust of the Jewish people that will not be confined to Europe or to Germany, but which I believe will be global.
02:16 -  So we need to be instructed and informed by the past Holocaust to anticipate the one that's coming which will eclipse it, and if God does not cut that time short, He said no flesh would survive.
02:32 -  So before I begin that heavy subject, and I'm happy for an opportunity, I ask you, Leith, to take off a jacket because this is going to be a labor. Now this message tonight and tomorrow is demanding.
02:50 -  I wonder if we have the grit to hear it, morally, spiritually, and intellectually. We're very rarely required to think as believers in services. Usually a message can be heard without making an undue requirement on our ability to think.
03:12 -  That will not be so tonight. My great fear is that this will go right over your head or you'll shut it off because you cannot keep up with the conceptual difficulty of the things that I'm going to express.
03:26 -  So don't panic. If you don't get it with your mind, then you'd be a rare one if you could, totally. The word and the spirit of the word is going into your spirit, and the Lord can later bring
03:39 -  it to your consciousness and awareness, and I believe that a cassette is being made of each of these and you'll have opportunity to ponder it. I'm privileged to have the opportunity because it rarely comes, and I want to hear what I
03:54 -  have to say about it by the inspiration of the Lord. Been brooding so long over this subject, and the Lord has given me an uncommon perception of this calamity that is shocking in its implications, both for the Jewish people and for the church,
04:13 -  but it's a shock that we desperately need. It's for the want of being shocked into the place of a true knowledge of God that such calamities fall, and we would be fools not to receive the benefit of the tragic past
04:30 -  and to anticipate its coming again and be prepared for it, and to be spokesmen to give a word of encouragement to those who might otherwise perish by the devastation that comes for which they are presently unprepared.
04:47 -  So Lord, precious God, give me and us a second wind. Give us an enablement by the grace of your life to hear your view, and that would be not presumptuous to say that that's what we are going to hear, and you know our frame
05:08 -  and that we are as dust, you know our limited capacity, you know, my God, that we have not been stretched in our believing life, and that we, this flesh does not like to be stretched, and despite all these things, we're asking for the triumph of your word, that we would
05:27 -  be changed by the hearing of it, sobered, deepened, brought even to a place of brokenness at our own inadequate knowledge of God, for the thing that most powerfully reveals you are your judgments, and for that we have had little stomach.
05:43 -  Come precious God, now, from the beginning, be the Alpha and the Omega of this occasion that you yourself have given, and we thank you for the privilege of it, my God, let not a syllable fall to the ground, and if men will not hear, if our Jewish people will shun
05:59 -  this occasion and opportunity, let the heavens hear, let the earth hear, let nature itself receive your word, and let it not fall to the ground, and we thank you and give you the praise for a privileged occasion, in Jesus' holy name, and God's people said, amen.
06:19 -  Well, I've got a wonderful paper here, 14 pages, entitled The Holocaust as Judgment, a suggestion for an interpretation of catastrophe as a witness to Jews prior to and including a final time of calamity. This is not just a paper written for our historical curiosity,
06:43 -  it has present and future implications of an enormous kind. Calamities cannot afford to go unexamined, or we make place for the next, and so I've written in italics under the title that I've just read to you, the greatest tragedy of the Holocaust is an inadequate
07:03 -  interpretation. It dishonors its victims, and it makes others candidates for the next. Oh, I wish I had rules of time, I wish I could digress and interpolate and insert so many things that have to do with this, but I can't resist at least saying this much, that I attended
07:25 -  a B'nai Brif function on the Holocaust at Chapel Hill in the University of North Carolina, I just happened to be passing through and I sort of advertised and rushed out of breath to make it for the final session and to hear the speakers lambasting the revisionists.
07:42 -  Anybody know what that is? A school of thought that has risen up that discounts the Holocaust as having actually taken place. It rejects the historicity of the Holocaust, it's a Jewish myth, it's a hyped up and exaggerated case of something that hardly existed at all, and
08:03 -  it was invoked to justify the state of Israel, and it's employed by the Jewish community to obtain sympathy, but it is grossly exaggerated, six million did not perish, and it just goes on like that. It's unbelievable that the most profoundly documented historic event of modern
08:24 -  times can be claimed by men not to have taken place. So much is this an hour of deception that that kind of thing is not only possible, but has a widespread popularity, even sending its messages onto university campuses and taking out half and full page ads in university
08:46 -  newspapers to promulgate this view. But you know what I said to my Jewish kinsmen? I said there's only one thing worse than a revisionist rejection of the historicity of the Holocaust, and that is a failure to plumb its depths. To acknowledge that it was a historic fact,
09:08 -  but not to raise ultimate questions about it is in my view a yet greater disservice to its victims than to discount it altogether. And what do you think would be the greatest question that could be raised of a phenomenon in modern times having its auspices through
09:28 -  the most eminently civilized nation on earth, Germany, which Jews had celebrated till that time as the epitome of liberal civilization in ethics, morality, philosophy, music, culture, as being the engine of Jewish destruction in modern times? This is inconceivable. There
09:52 -  have been deaths, there have been sufferings, there have been victims of war, there have been civilian populations that have perished in war, but never a calculated systematic annihilation of a people. Not by some barbaric, backwater, dark nation, but by the most eminently
10:10 -  civilized. What great question should be put to that systematic annihilation of Jews in the 20th century that began with the greatest hope and anticipation that this was to be the century not only of human progress reaching its zenith, but the end of poverty, war, lack
10:33 -  of brotherhood, one of the kinds of things that have harassed and victimized mankind the 20th century would usher in the golden age. Isn't it ironic what it has ushered in despite the vain hopes of men in man? So what would you say is the single greatest question
10:54 -  that could be put to such a phenomenon that staggers the historians to this hour? Where was God? Where was God? The God of Israel and the God of the covenant, the all-knowing God and the all-righteous God watching His people systematically annihilated without
11:19 -  a beep? This is going to require the most radical revision of our understanding of God and in fact it has, not only for Jews, but for the Christian community also. I go on in my paper and I'll probably, you can afford to hear the repetition, but I'll say this
11:43 -  now that God privileged me to give me a few years in a Lutheran seminary and there I learned to my astonishment that a movement that formerly had an evangelical outreach to Jews has discontinued that practice because of the Holocaust and felt that they have no further justification
12:04 -  to harass Jews with the annoying question of the gospel seeing that the Holocaust was the statement of the church's failure and that in fact the seeds of Jewish hatred were sown in the New Testament itself with pejorative statements of a demeaning kind about Jews
12:24 -  and that therefore the root cause of this calamity is New Testament faith itself and that maybe the Jewish community is right. We need to examine our Christology which is the doctrine of Christ because how could He have come and such devastation have followed
12:44 -  2000 years after and let's not stop there. Let's examine the doctrine of God for how can there be a God who is both righteous, omniscient, all-knowing and omnipotent and yet does not intervene to alleviate such gross suffering unto annihilation. In a word more
13:05 -  than you know seminaries are now dishing out almost anti-Christ inspiration to raise up a generation of preachers who accept the Jewish interpretation of the Holocaust in the absence of any other and the only other view that can have any validity but which is unthinkable
13:32 -  is that God is, God was present, God was all-seeing, He chose not only not to invoke His power to arrest or to impede or stop but that in fact the Holocaust was a fulfillment of His own will even according to His own word spoken millennia before in Leviticus and Deuteronomy
13:57 -  of a judgment that would come upon the Jewish people in their latter days. It's one of the other saints. As for me in my house, well at least for me, my wife is a softie, this is too hard for her, I believe that God honored and fulfilled His word and as my paper goes
14:20 -  on to say and I'll be jumping back and forth, when Eichmann was brought to trial in Jerusalem some years after the conclusion of World War II he was tracked down by Simon Wiesenthal and the Nazi hunters years after the completion of the war, found in Argentina, bound and
14:43 -  brought to Israel, faced trial and was executed for his war crimes and Gideon Hausner the Jewish prosecuting attorney for the State of Israel, I'm paraphrasing him but in my paper I have his exact words, says something like this, that no matter how long after a
15:05 -  crime is committed or no matter how distant the perpetrator justice will ultimately find him out and bring him to his just reward, something like that, I'm sure the man had no consciousness whatsoever that his statement was prophetic about Israel itself, no matter
15:27 -  how long after the perpetration of the sin and the rejection of God, the apostasy of the nation, God is not required in a cause and effect relationship to immediately slam the sinning people with the consequence of this sin, he gives it to them in installments
15:48 -  the destruction of the temple and of Jerusalem, the dispersal of the nation Israel into the corners of the earth in 70 A.D. and the final conquest of Israel in 135 A.D. by the Romans and then what has happened in our diasporic experience as a little island of Jewish unbelief
16:08 -  in the nations called the Christian nations into which we were thrown, in a word something was set in motion that had a continuing consequence, every Easter season Jews would have to nail themselves into their homes and close their doors for the cry of Christ killer and the
16:28 -  things that continued to haunt them having been set in motion by the rejection of Jesus and I don't know how much I'll have opportunity to develop this, the rejection of Jesus however grievous a sin that was and must of necessity bring its consequence is not the thing in
16:50 -  itself in the way those who have cried Christ killers have thought to express but needs to be understood as the consummation or the culmination of a longer history of the rejection of God that took its final expression when he himself came in himself as Israel's deliverer
17:12 -  and Messiah to a people who would now so apostate and so rejecting that he could not only not be recognized but be considered a threat to their establishment and for which the only answer was his execution. So we need to understand the death, the exceeding sinfulness of sin
17:32 -  and that of necessity if men will not repent when God gives opportunity through calamity that we open ourselves for yet a greater suffering. As I try to develop in this paper God's judgments are not punitive so much as they are redemptive and the judgments fall when men fail to heed
17:57 -  the voice of his prophets or his own interpretation and explanation of the calamities and nothing is left to instruct them but calamity itself and if they will not be instructed by calamity and still will not see God's hand in their suffering then what is left to keep them from
18:18 -  a final irremediable judgment that is that to say without remedy a fire that shall not be extinguished that is eternal. Are you guys following me so far? In fact if you don't consider the holocaust in the light of eternity you do not consider the holocaust rightly.
18:43 -  No the holocaust does not make sense as an event in modern times under the direction and permissive will of God except that you understand it in the context and the issue of eternity itself. So there is something about the holocaust, the dimensions of it,
19:05 -  the magnitude of it that require two things for which we and the Jewish people are notoriously guilty of failure to adequately understand the past and an inadequate view of the issue of the eternal future. It is for the want of these two things that we are the victims
19:25 -  of events in modern times and that without comprehension. Great events have got to be seen in the context of the past and in the anticipation of the eternal future where they are not seen and in fact my great delight in speaking of the holocaust is the hope that
19:47 -  Jews who have not been either mindful of our history and do not know that we are implicated in the sins of our fathers and that God is waiting for an acknowledgement from us of their sins as our own equally lack a view of the eternal future and we are fixed in
20:04 -  time and when the day of eternity comes it will be a shock and a wailing beyond all description. I don't know if you know this, my Jewish tinsmen lack two profound things, a sense of sin and a sense of eternity and those two things are related. In fact if you can bear
20:29 -  this Judaism with all due respect is a massive deception. Monotheism which we have lauded and seek to be the defenders of is a distorted and inadequate view of God and therefore confers a God of one's imagining and not the God who is God at all and the God who can save.
20:55 -  And we perpetuate these deceptions and languish in them still and celebrate ourselves for being faithful in upholding them. That's why we need the severity of events to shock us out of our deception when every other appeal from God fails. I begin my paper by quoting
21:18 -  a Jewish believing theologian, I just bumped into his book, it's a collector's item that you couldn't find it anywhere, published in 1967 in which he says the lasting significance for Auschwitz for humanity lies in its disclosure of the human condition, man in his nature.
21:43 -  As something incomprehensible and insoluble in merely human terms, humanism lacks the categories of judgment by which it can repudiate evil on a transcendent scale. Don't get worried when I quote things like this but I think this is what we have to note, humanism cannot
22:04 -  only not repudiate radical evil, it cannot understand it and it cannot transcend it because humanism itself is limited to man. In other words the magnitude of the holocaust, the depth of that tragedy, the extent of that devastation, the consequences of which continue
22:24 -  now still require a view and an explanation beyond what humanists can provide. It eclipses their categories, it requires a view from above, it requires a view from above, it requires a divine explanation. Humanism shows itself inadequate and that's why I chafe when I
22:49 -  attend Jewish sponsored conferences on the holocaust and listen to their commentary. It is no more than a sifting through the statistics of the thing again. How much cyclone B gas was used and what was the mechanism of annihilation and what took place at the 1C conference that
23:09 -  set in motion the program of annihilation? I mean I'm an ex-history teacher but I have an urgency in my Jewish and believing heart that is greater than statistics. I want to leap into the grave, I want to embrace the cadavers and I want to ask why? And humanism
23:29 -  cannot provide that answer and it's calculated to drive men to a place where their own intelligence and sociology and historical analysis and critique cannot find answer. It's a new phenomenon, it reveals something demonic, it's in the spirit realm, you cannot understand the Nazi
23:49 -  phenomenon by mere sociological interpretation. It is a demonic, satanic phenomenon and I can go on in speaking of that as I do when I go to Germany and face the church with its own issues of a failed Christianity, whether it was orthodox or liberal that made such
24:10 -  spiritual room for the void created by the lack of an apostolic faith that it was filled by a demonic alternative called Nazism. The holocaust requires us to bring into consideration dimensions of understanding of the spirit realm that are uncomfortable for rational
24:32 -  Jewish and secular consideration. For humanists of any kind of which we Jews are the supreme model and in fact you know what I call Judaism? Ethical humanism, lightly gilded over with some liturgical flourish. Don't you be deceived and taken in. And that's why we had to die
24:58 -  at the hands of Germans because who was more humanistic, who was more humane, who was more ethical, who gave the world, well here's a question for you, who was the great ethical philosopher, the German Kant, K-A-N-T? Germans were supreme in philosophical and ethical
25:22 -  and moral consideration and that's why we Jews so esteemed them and esteemed them so highly that German civilization was postulated as actually being the messianic fulfillment. That we had gone, we had become so distant from the biblical roots of messianic anticipation
25:45 -  that we found a secular fulfillment that much more spoke to our hearts as emancipated Jews out of the ghettos of Germany than the scriptures itself and that's why we formed Judaism was born in Germany and that's why Germany had to be our graveyard and that the Frankenstein
26:05 -  that we so admired became the monster that so decimated us and we have not learned the lesson yet. Still a steaming man after the most grotesque failure of man in his best form and not understanding that we share that depravity with Germans and if we had no opportunity
26:31 -  to demonstrate it before maybe God is giving us historical opportunity now as we have to wrestle with a people who are our misfortune called Palestinians and Arabs. Anybody here speak German? Die Juden sind unser Unglück was the motto and slogan that was often around
26:57 -  the Nazi mass, what do you call them, rallies. The Jews are our misfortune. Well what happened to that misfortune? The solution was annihilation and we who cannot yet forgive the Germans are finding ourselves in Israel every day more vexed by the presence of another people who
27:20 -  simply will not disappear to our convenience and are becoming our misfortune and are evoking standards of conduct from us as Jews that has never been seen in our entire history and I am the kind of guy that sees God in everything and I especially see him in this.
27:44 -  If we will not accept the judgment of God's word about the condition of all men which includes Jewish men that there is no man good no not one of God with a mark and equity who can stand if we still continue to celebrate our Jewish distinctive as being ethically
28:03 -  and morally superior to Gentiles then God has got to allow us to wallow in the evidence of our own making when we crush the bones of men or torture our prisoners to death in order to extricate information that might save us from another terrorist bombings. Don't
28:24 -  you guys get the Jerusalem Post? Don't you read with that organization that surveys human rights violations in the world? I forgot the name of it has again and again complained about Jewish barbarity about the treatment of Palestinian prisoners who they do not require
28:45 -  a legal Wichita court to imprison them. They can write for six months and men who are caught are involved in terrorist acts as one recently did died in interrogation and the nation was faced again with the question how far should the GSS the government secret service I forgot
29:06 -  what those letters stand for be allowed to apply reasonable physical exertion in order to obtain information? Well they were allowed to go so far that a man died from it and more than one. This is inconceivable but what do you do when these men have information of
29:29 -  that the obtaining of which will save Jewish life? Can you see the predicament? Who has put them in that predicament? In the vain hopes that we had in 1948 to be a state of an uncommon kind to show the world once and for all what Jewish civilization could be
29:48 -  and within a half century to find ourselves daily being forced to act in ways that are inconceivable and incompatible with our own view of ourselves. How far will God go to get a people to say uncle and to surrender to the truth of his word despite the lack
30:12 -  of their subjective verification? If God says there is no man good no not one I don't care how good you think you are and that you've never robbed anyone nor raped maybe you were never in a situation in which it was required fall before the statement and the judgment
30:33 -  of God's word and don't wait for your own empirical and subjective confirmation because if God gives it to you you will be eternally humiliated. Well I haven't even gotten through the introduction of page one. Listen to this the dangers which threaten our own Jewish
30:51 -  society here's a man writing in 1967 a rise out of ills which lie in that past. When you get home tonight you can look at Ecclesiastes 3.15 which says something like that which will be has already been and that which is past is now and God requires that which is
31:14 -  past. Now I know our cop out propensity to sweep the past under the carpet and think that by that we have answered its requirement but I'll tell you what it will always rise up at the moment we least desire to express itself. God is not in the business of sweeping
31:35 -  things under carpets. He requires that which is past. And that which is past is now. We need to see as God sees saints and God sees in an unbroken continuum the sins of the fathers and the sins of the present generation as
31:58 -  being one sin. He sees the past as having a yet continuing viable existence and must express itself in the life of men societies and nations. What is going on now in Bosnia and former Yugoslavia has its origins in World War II and before that time in the most fiendish
32:19 -  and brutal conflict between Eastern Orthodox and Catholics that men have not forgotten and now have opportunity to ventilate horribly. That which is past is now and I'm wondering when we will pay for our own past in race relations in America where the treatment of
32:39 -  the American Indian which we hope to suppress and hold down and placate and provide government programs will one day erupt and have the consequence that it must have unless the past is recognized and dealt with righteously before God and before men. If there's not a church that
32:58 -  loves truth and has the grit and the gut to face the issues of the past what shall we hope for in unbelieving mankind? And what do we do when our past becomes painful? We go to another church and to another fellowship where we start one of our own and we do not
33:19 -  deal with the brute questions that demand answer. Oh I can go on and somewhere in this paper I raised the model of Moses in the burning bush that the great deliverance for Israel that brought them out of the bondage of Egypt and of sin and of slavery was a man who was
33:43 -  arrested by a fire that could not be extinguished and he turned aside to sea. And when God saw that he turned aside to sea God called him by name twice and said take off your shoes for the ground upon which you stand is holy. Can you follow that? The fire that is not
34:09 -  extinguished is the fire of judgment and it's the fire that we don't want to look into. We don't want to consider the issues of judgment. It's painful, stretching, the identification is grievous for ourselves. We rather fasten on the aspects of the deity with which we
34:30 -  are more comfortable, the goodness of God, the mercy of God, the love of God. But the judgment of God we don't want to consider. And I would say that the greatest lovers of God are distinguished by that one thing. They embrace God in his totality, lock, stock and
34:46 -  barrel, his judgments as well as his mercies, knowing that what are his mercies but for his judgments and what are his judgments rightly understood but his mercies. To have a view of God that excerpts or exempts the judgment of God as being central to God is not to have
35:07 -  God. And don't think because you call the God that you have Jesus that you in fact have him. You can label anything with what you will. But to know him as he in fact is in his totality and his severity as well as his goodness is to know him. And to know him as
35:29 -  that God is to be saved by him out of extremity and calamity. Or else we're going to find another generation leaping on their altars and crying out to a God who cannot answer because he's not God at all but the God of their own imagining though he be called the
35:48 -  God of Israel or even Jesus. I don't think I've recovered from the impression that God gave me not too long ago standing in a congregation that you don't have to be a Mormon or a Jehovah's witness or they subscribe to any sect to be deceived. You can subscribe to orthodox Christianity
36:11 -  and all of its doctrines and yet be deceived. And use a terminology and labels and a vocabulary that is absolutely correct but bears no correspondence to the God which is your imagining. In fact I would say this. It was because of Germany's satisfaction with a mere phrasiological orthodoxy
36:38 -  that was bereft of power and the actuality of God in truth that created the void by which the demonic phenomenon came that exterminated world jewelry and almost took world civilization with it. The consequence of an inadequate faith and an inadequate knowledge of God is
37:01 -  beyond all describing. Only from the standpoint of eternity does this Jewish brother write can the temporal impasse be surmounted. Only a view that takes eternity into consideration will be a key for an understanding of this great tragedy. Our humanity he writes depends
37:25 -  on the assurance of the meaningfulness of the meaningless. You know if you read the literature on the holocaust many of the Jewish commentators say that it's a tragedy of such proportion that it belies any ability to understand it or to make it known. We have created a
37:45 -  calamity beyond our ability to understand and therefore it's vain to seek for understanding and it just has to be dismissed as an aberration, as a piece of meaninglessness, as mankind freaking out and going on from there. That would be tragic and I think that's because
38:06 -  that kind of view has prevailed that mankind itself is falling increasingly into and I'm sorry to pull this on you and get fancy. A kind of nihilism, a kind of brutality, a kind of chaos and love of violence, a kind of what the heck mentality. After all there's no meaning
38:26 -  in the world and there's no values in the world and there's no understanding of the world for its greatest calamities then what does it mean to have a Bosnia or a Rwanda or any other kind of debacle and annihilation of mankind and of race that is presently taking
38:41 -  place including Oklahoma City. Men are without conscience because there's no value structure, there's no God, there's no explanation, there's no meaning, anything goes. The fancy word for that is nihilism, the kind of abject condition to which men fall when there's no hope and
39:06 -  no meaning. To allow the holocaust to go unexplained and to be accounted as being beyond meaning or meaningful interpretation or understanding is to release into the world a spirit and a mentality that makes an Oklahoma City inevitable and it's only a beginning. If there's no other
39:28 -  presence in the world that demands meaning, believing that there's a God who is God overall, it won't be the church and we ourselves have not turned aside to say. We've not been willing to look into the burning bush and that's why we haven't been called, that's why our name
39:51 -  has not been sounded, that's why we have not been sent to the ultimate and the apostolic requirement of setting the people free or bringing them out that we might bring them in because we bypass the God who is in the midst of judgment and we don't want to find
40:07 -  him there. To find him there is to find him as he in fact is and not as we thought him to be. The one place where the Jewish community has not sought to look ironically to explain this great debacle called the Holocaust is the Scriptures. Isn't that remarkable? We're
40:31 -  keen on sociological interpretations and the psychological understanding of such aberrations as Adolf Hitler and Eichmann or the collapse of the German economy and the rise of Nazism as a political and social phenomenon and the one place where we have not sought to look
40:51 -  for an understanding is God's own word. How many people here know the name Elie Wiesel? Nobel Prize winner, the most applauded, gifted commentator on the Holocaust who himself is the sole survivor of Auschwitz out of Romanian Jewry. His books are powerful. I recommend
41:16 -  the book The Night. You'll not sleep and not sleep for many days after the reading of it. Well, I had a privilege to hear him some years ago and a very able gifted man. I think he teaches at Boston University literature and philosophy with something of that kind. A
41:33 -  picture of the eminent humanist. I say if there were no God, here's a model of what we could hope for mankind. But if there is a God, this is a scarecrow. This is a bizarre grotesque. Man's best is beautifully eclipsed when there's a God who sanctifies and brings people into
41:54 -  the sharing of his own nature and being. But this is the finest expression of Jewish life and a survivor himself. And so he gave a talk in which he said, I'm now studying the Scripture twice a week with the aid of a Rabbi. And oh my. And so the Lord did not allow me to
42:13 -  ask him publicly but afterwards privately I went up to him and I said, Mr. Wiesel, seeing that you're studying the Scriptures twice weekly, to what degree would you be willing to acknowledge that the Holocaust and all previous Jewish calamity is the fulfillment
42:32 -  of prophetic Scripture given us as warning in the concluding chapters of the books of Deuteronomy and Leviticus. He jerked, stiffened and looked and said, I refuse to consider that. And when I heard that, something struck my spirit like a death bell, like a nail.
43:03 -  That if a man himself who has survived the Holocaust and has experienced the things described in Leviticus and Deuteronomy firsthand, including the annihilation of his own family, is unwilling to consider that, for what then shall we hope? It's not that he said that's an erroneous
43:26 -  view or God didn't say that, but that even if God said that, I refuse to consider that. And you know what children, I would say that if there were no other cause to explain the Holocaust, that one statement by the finest expression of Judaism and Jewish life, that
43:55 -  is in itself a sufficient explanation. I refuse to consider that. I exult myself. My opinion of Jewish rectitude and quality is incompatible with any view of sin of a kind that would justify this judgment. I refuse to consider that. I refuse. God may have said so, but
44:27 -  I refuse to consider that. As if that refusal in any way impresses God. He'll make a mark of all of our feeble human presumptions as if by our refusal we can count a man God. It may well be that Elie Wiesel, before his light goes out, dim light that it is, will
44:52 -  yet see the next and find that the failure to have recognized God and the fulfillment of his word in the Holocaust past makes inevitable the present and the last of which he himself might finally also be victim. God is not to be mocked. His word is everything and the
45:15 -  remarkable thing is it's the one place to which we have not turned as a Jewish community to find explanation. Although previous generations had earlier always subscribed to their correspondence between Jewish sin and Jewish goody. This calamity has fallen upon us for our sins has
45:35 -  always been the principal explanation given by the sages of Israel for Jewish calamity. But the calamity of the Holocaust was of such proportions that men could not bring themselves again to invoke that means of understanding. And I'm saying why not? Why not? Why not?
45:57 -  Why should we look further than when God himself tells us that in the latter days such things would befall us? That we would be consumed by fire and I wrote a paper in the seminary on Deuteronomy 32 called the Song of Moses. It's not the kind of song that you think.
46:19 -  It's given in order to be memorized and it describes the whole melancholy detail of future latter day suffering of the Jewish people if we don't repent. And in one section it says something about terror from within and without and the sword and in the chambers
46:37 -  death to the whorey headed and to the infants and to the young men and the maidens. You know when they open the gas chambers that's exactly the order in which the corpses were always to be found. On the bottom were the infants and the elderly and above them in
46:59 -  correspondence to the health and virility were those who were strongest who sought to climb on top the mass of the bodies to breathe the last air that remained. And God describes it in Deuteronomy 32 as a song to be communicated from father to children and children to children.
47:17 -  They were before warned and avoid the thing that has in fact come. I wrote that as a paper and gave that explanation in the Lutheran seminary to a man who had been a Lutheran charismatic leader and has since rejected the charismatic phenomenon. He said he wanted
47:38 -  to go to the big boat. And you know what he wrote on the paper? He said you're dangerous. But he affixed on the paper a note from Scott Peck, kind of a new age commentator. He says this is much more my view. And Scott Peck says God looks down from above and sees the
47:57 -  horrible things that men afflict upon one another but he's powerless to intervene and just has to sadly look away. So one of the other saints is that your God who is powerless then I would say for us all, if our God is powerless, if our God is powerless how is
48:19 -  he God? We need to consider what men don't want to consider. And the very unwillingness to consider the word of God in its clear indictment of Jewish sin and apostasy is itself the evidence of that apostasy. Can you follow that? The unwillingness to consider the word of God
48:42 -  of the clear statement of our historic and continuing apostasy is the evidence of that apostasy even now. That which is past is really now. And therefore if that condition invoked the judgment of God in the past and we still did not turn, what then can we expect in the
49:06 -  future as Jewish calamity continues to escalate throughout all the world? Antisemitism continues to rise. Jewish public buildings are dynamited in Buenos Aires, Argentina by the same manner by which the Oklahoma City federal building was brought down only with much greater loss
49:30 -  of life. Two hundred died instantly as a seven story structure collapsed to its very foundation and hundreds of others named. In a magazine to which I subscribed a Jewish report from Jerusalem sent its reporters months after to find the aftermath of what had happened.
49:49 -  You know what they found? That the Argentinians rather than being sympathetic to this lamentable loss of life were now chomping at the bit and irritated with the Jews and growing resentful because the Jewish community had rented another facility in a residential neighborhood with
50:07 -  the schools for their kids and they don't want them there lest there be another explosion and their own children would be victim. Tighten your seatbelt. I have not too long ago come back from Mexico and went out of my way and was on a bus all night to have one interview
50:29 -  with a Jewish businessman having his 70th birthday the morning that we met for breakfast and to say to him, brace yourself for that which came to the Jewish community in Buenos Aires is likely to come to the Jewish community in Mexico City and brace yourself it's likely
50:46 -  to come to Cleveland Ohio. Jewish calamity is increasing. Anti-Semitism is increasing. The spirit of it is becoming vile. Nationalist groups are rising. Do not be a Jew safe in any place in the world because God has yet a controversy with his people which I have
51:10 -  not been willing to hear and to consider. So what should we say of a man who refuses to consider that who has all the more suffered the actual predicted consequences and yet refuses what ought to be to a Jew especially its first and evident explanation. I don't
51:27 -  know about you but if anything happens of a grievous kind, a broken leg, a loss of employment, a failed marriage, a rupture in fellowship, a cold, a sniffle, anything adverse, my tendency is to ask first how is God in this? In what way are we suffering this as a consequence
51:51 -  of sin? How is this a statement of judgment rather than mere accident or happenstance? What to be the very propensity of mind of the church always to seek the meaning of an event in God first before we seek it in nature or in man or in the world as being accident?
52:15 -  It should be our first and evident explanation where is God? Why was God silent? Why was his face turned from us? Why did he allow the systematic annihilation? I mean after all as the Jewish community says it was not the secular American Jew who was the victim
52:31 -  who more likely should have been being unrelated to God and caught up in business and material things. It was the Orthodox, it was the Hasidim, it was the Polish religious Jewish community that was devastated and wiped out. So how can that be God? Come on you guys haven't
52:48 -  you been exercised in your discernments and judgments by your scripture to be able to analyze current events and give their meaning? Who can answer that? I'll take a shot at it. Your attitude implies that somehow God was impressed with Jewish orthodoxy in Poland.
53:10 -  Oh I know you are. You like the shtiklach and the what do they call it? Martin Buber celebrated it, the Hasidim and their dancing and schnapps and I mean it's very picturesque. Does that mean that God himself honors and celebrates that as being true faith? It may
53:34 -  well be that in the kind of religious thing that it was in the continuation of what was rabbinical and pharisaical that it perpetuates the very disposition that crucified his son and that he's not impressed and that in fact he is all the more distressed and makes that
53:52 -  necessarily the first victim rather than the last. I don't know but I'm willing to ask the question because we don't know as we ought to know and we don't see as we ought to see. We have not taken God's view into consideration. We're schmaltzy, we're sentimental, we're
54:12 -  soft, we want to make nice and in fact we're so affected and captivated by the Jewish mystique that we think it's wonderful. We need to ask first questions and the unhappy fact is that interpreting catastrophe as the consequence and judgment for sin is totally incompatible
54:35 -  with contemporary Jewish self-assessment. Dear Saints, I love my people. I'm a piece of them. For 35 years I was a piece of them and I know what Jewish self-assessment is. It is so self-congratulatory. It is so impressive in our own sight. We could be fornicators
54:58 -  but for us it's art or love or some other kind of thing when it's not that for other men who are just being sensual or carnal. We have an exalted view of ourselves and a too inadequate view of God and the two things must necessarily always go together. If the
55:20 -  great prophet Isaiah called the prince of the prophets cries out in the sixth chapter of his book, what was me? I'm undone. I'm a man of unclean lips and the midst of the people of unclean lips. What shall we say? What shall contemporary Jewry say if the
55:44 -  great prophet laments about his condition that can only be effaced by a call from off the altar of God? What about us with our cheap language, our cursing, our sophisticated talk, our making Jurassic Park and E.T. and Steven Spielberg productions and sports and Fox Studios
56:08 -  and every kind of thing that is corrupting the culture of civilization? Where foremost what shall we say if Isaiah says what was me? I'm undone. The reason for the celebration of ourselves and the elevation of our own self-regard is because we have not seen him
56:27 -  as he in fact is or at all and there's no more wonderful corrective than an erroneous view of man than to see God as he himself is and as he chooses to be seen and known and sets himself forth. So what would you say is the single act of God in history and
56:51 -  in time that most revealed himself as he in fact is for everyone who has eyes to behold then as now? What is the single greatest revelation of God in his totality as God, in his mercy as well as in his judgment? At the cross where I first saw the light and the sins of people
57:21 -  and the rolled away. Dear Saints, I'm stretching you. I've taken much too much time. I'll bring this to a close for now but let's close on this and pray for me that somehow I can get through this in these days. We're just getting warm to the task. I've got concepts here that
57:41 -  will blow you out of your seat. In my opinion the greatest demonstration of God as God was the crucified Christ. The greatest revelation of the triune God is a son on the earth crying out to a father in heaven and giving himself without spot to God as a sacrifice by the
58:05 -  eternal spirit. The greatest demonstration of the triunity of God is Jesus at the cross. The greatest statement of the righteousness of God is Jesus at the cross. The greatest statement of the exceeding sinfulness of sin is Jesus at the cross. The greatest statement
58:24 -  of the mercy of God that requires sin is his own willingness to bear it as God on the cross. God crucified and if we become revisionist in our mentalities as Jews and refuse to consider the historicity of that crucifixion and its meaning. If we turn away from it and refuse
58:47 -  to look into the fire of the judgment that Jesus bore in his body, the fire of it and dismiss it as an irrelevancy or an aberration or a presumer suffering some kind of political fate. Not only have we missed the enormous grace that was extended in that sacrifice
59:09 -  and the blood that would have washed out sin away and restored us to the father but we dismiss the view of God as God that condemns us to something less and other than God himself and celebrate that as being defenders of monotheism. You want to know what the judgment of that
59:31 -  will be among other judgments? The rise of Islam, the other monotheistic faith inspired by apostate Judaism in the 6th or 7th century A.D. that today is the greatest threat to Jewish existence. Our sins will find us out. Our rejections will have their consequence
59:56 -  and the failure to consider the rejection of Jesus by our fathers as being a sinful rejection by repudiating that rejection commits us to that sin. We are in an unbroken continuum of sin with our fathers until we break that continuum by avoiding their rejection and
01:00:24 -  affirming him as the sent one of God. To be silent is to affirm the sin of the rejection and to suffer its continuing consequence. The profoundest revelation of the human condition was Jesus on the cross. If we will not believe the exceeding sinfulness of sin, will we believe
01:00:49 -  it when we see what it required God to expiate that sin? We will never understand the magnitude of sin by considering our own. Why? Because sin by its very nature is deceptive. It never speaks or reveals of itself as sin. But what is required to expiate sin is the statement
01:01:11 -  of what sin is as God sees it and is required to deal with it in the sending of his self and his son. We miss the revelation of God and we miss the revelation of the human condition little wonder that we are the most eminent humanists to this day in the world and celebrated
01:01:32 -  the most eminent humanist civilization in Germany. And even though it crucified us, we still celebrate man and especially Jewish man. And if we will not recognize the revelation of God in the judgment brought upon Jesus, the final and last question is will we recognize
01:01:52 -  it when it comes upon us in the final and next holocaust? Will we in that suffering see the judgment and recognize what God has been trying to communicate for these two thousand years and repent of our sinful apostasy and rejection and be saved out of it? So I don't
01:02:13 -  know how to conclude tonight but let's just bow before the Lord. Asking for courage, stamina moral stamina. This is a strain to consider these things. It jars us. It runs right into a sentimental regard for our own people that we want so much to see in their best light.
01:02:38 -  And it hurts us to have to consider them in the way that we are discussing and yet if it be truth we do them a disservice not to consider that and to make that known. Tell Jacob their transgressions. Cry out to Israel, God says. Don't give them a false
01:02:58 -  comfort. Don't give them a schmaltzy pat on the back and affirm their Judaism that does not save and celebrates the God of their own imagining. Call them to the recognition of the consequence of the sins of the people for which we are collectively accountable
01:03:15 -  and which has brought a history and a wake of judgments and tragedy and is not over yet. Where is the church in its prophetic integrity that can cry out and tell Jacob his transgression as being the ultimate very act of love and not wins? Do you be called anti-Semitic? Do
01:03:38 -  you be called every name in the book? Where are the lovers of Israel who will lift up their voices and fear not and save those who would otherwise be victim and perish? That's the church and it's the church for which God waits and it's the church for which I pray
01:03:56 -  and for which I'm serving. So Lord in Jesus' name we're crying out to you. So much of what our people have suffered has been indeed our failure to be a church of that kind. German orthodoxy and its liberalism and its final God is dead theology provided the vacuum into
01:04:17 -  which the demonic evil came that cut us down, my God, by the millions. And what is our church today? And what is its substance and character now? What is its truth now and its integrity now, its prophetic stature now? Man be, pan be, shallow, self-seeking, service oriented,
01:04:40 -  blessing seeking and running, unwilling to consider hard things, not loving truth, but not having the grit to consider truth, even for itself and its own past, let alone that of Israel's. Lord we're asking that you would deal with us in these days and meet us in
01:04:57 -  these days and speak to us in such a way as we ourselves need to be confronted or will be no earthly good for Israel or for anyone. Sentimental consideration is a tap, it's nothing, it's a vapor, but prophetic clarity, authority, truth, passion is a requirement of the hour
01:05:20 -  and we ask my God that you would induct us into this. Let's re-church that it might be to Israel what it ought and must in these last days, lest that people suffer indescribably. Bless our services, bless our continuation in this Lord. Give us the stamina to hear
01:05:40 -  it, to take it in, to consider it, to work out its application even as it affects us. And we thank you and give you the praise for such an hour that has come. Time is short and you are a more earnest God than we have ever seen you and we love you for that. Help
01:05:59 -  us, give us the grace to bear it and to respond. We thank you and give you the praise in Jesus' name and God's people said, Amen.