The Eternal Now

00:00 -  And I think it would bless us all to hear these quotes from my favorite theologian, Carl Budd. I just stumbled upon it almost accidentally in a reference from another book and began to look up the reference and it went on into the discussion.
00:14 -  It runs many pages, I'll just share a few of the highlights just to give you the sense of how the subject of time can be considered. Because we take time for granted and we allow time to slip through our fingers
00:29 -  and I'll tell you before you know it, you're 72 pushing 73. And your memory is that only yesterday you were 13 being bar mitzvah. Where did the time go? Time is our privilege.
00:41 -  And I think that especially the young people here need to hear something like this because when you're young you think you always remain perennially young. But I want the young to know that it's not long before you're 15, 16, 18, 20, 21, 25, 30 and it goes.
01:00 -  And so we have a great privilege of what God has granted us in that phenomenon called time. We ask concerning the significance of the fact that man is always now. This is what I love about Talbot. The issue of time is the issue of now.
01:25 -  If the now is not redeemed, if the now is not esteemed, what is tomorrow? Because there's a now that will not be given tomorrow. We may think well Monday will be another day just like today.
01:36 -  Whatever we forestall or say for that day we can perform as readily as today. But no, something has changed. It cannot be the same. There's a now that's a now. There's a uniqueness.
01:47 -  There's a uniqueness as for example right now in this time, in this service and in this sharing. So we need to esteem the now that is before us and fully redeem it. Because tomorrow will not be another occasion like now.
02:01 -  Tomorrow has its own now. We cannot miss today's now and defer it for tomorrow. It will not be the same now. We have seen that all human being action and experience is either now or else unreal.
02:14 -  Isn't that a remarkable statement? It's either now or it's unreal. So an unreality comes in to that which is deferred that should be now.
02:24 -  And that's not only the missing of the moment that makes the moment unreal. It makes the man unreal. So reality in the man, reality in the body is the true appropriation of the present moment.
02:37 -  The now of God. Even as past and future can be understood as a totality, only relation to the present as a past or present now. I remember one of these lines. I didn't even think to comment on every one but how can you miss it?
02:54 -  So that if the now is not rightly esteemed, what does the past mean and what does the future mean? For the future is the anticipation of future nows and the past is the accumulation of past nows. If your present now is not rightly esteemed, you have done disservice to your past
03:14 -  and you have blunted and defrauded yourself of the future. So both past and future are hinged upon the present moment. Our own reality depends upon the reality of this.
03:28 -  And this transition and therefore the now in which we are is real and because the present of the eternal God as the creator of times is the secret of our present. What makes now now is that God is in that now. He's present in this now.
03:45 -  He's the secret of the present. I can't explain to you but I forgot what morning of last week in the prayer time John made the suggestion that maybe Reggie ought to have more time in getting this program started
03:59 -  and something leaked out of me that was so vehement that almost frightened me. No! I don't care what the problem is. No, we said we would begin in January. We need to begin in January. This thing must commence in the time that we said and it was appointed.
04:15 -  We cannot defer. And I didn't understand why it was so vehement until I read this. It's because something more is at stake than the beginning of a program. What is at stake is the honoring of God. That explains the vehemence who is present in the now.
04:32 -  If we defer the now, we are doing the service to the God who is present in the now. It's a liberty that we cannot afford to take for we will lose something from God, something about God. We lose our reality. Our reality is the reality in God.
04:47 -  And if we take these liberties for our convenience and we will always have occasion for them and there will always be some circumstance by which we can justify ourselves, we have missed the present moment. And if we do it consistently, it becomes a mode of being in which God has put aside more than we know.
05:09 -  Our own reality depends on this. God who is present in the now is the secret of it. In this way, in this particularity, God's present is the secret of our own. It is not merely like the dominant undertone of a painting or the sustained basic note of a classical piece of music.
05:33 -  It always has its own particular sound, character and lust. It is the present of the living God and not of an exalted but static picture of God. This means that our present is not like the millions of identical oscillations of the clock by which we measure it.
05:48 -  If it would be like this, if we had to live without God, if our present were lost time, if it were not real but nonexistent, the fact that the living God is present makes our present not only real but weighty and therefore important. The fact that God is in the present moment makes that moment exalted, makes that moment sacred, makes that moment holy.
06:07 -  He is in the present moment. He is the God of the now. So to defer that God and set him aside for a later time is to lose the secret of that moment and what is imprinted in his presence for that moment. Our life is the sum of our moments and of our nows.
06:25 -  And we have grown up in a world and in a culture by which all of this is blunted. One day is like another. In fact, that's a description of a people in apostasy. When they come to the place where one day is like another, they have lost their relationship with God.
06:43 -  They no longer exalt the day as the day. They no longer exalt the now because they no longer exalt the God who is present in the now. This mystery of what God has for us now, of what he has to say to us to allow to command us, to give us,
07:02 -  it encloses the opportunity which he wills to be realized in and through us now. That's why we need your prayer because when we stand at a school in Russia or any other place, the now has come. And of all the options that are before us, what do we speak? Because that now will not be given again.
07:23 -  And it surprised me to hear what came out of my mouth at that school, which to them was completely irrelevant. What they wanted was how do we promote church growth? What is this guy talking about? I forgot even what it was, but it was completely other than their expectation.
07:42 -  So to seize the now, to appropriate and to experience and express what God is wanting in the now is a holy requirement. There's a trembling. There's a tension of have I missed it? Because it will not be given again quite that way and in quite that time.
08:03 -  And so it casts you upon God and beyond any ability that you have in your own humanity or your own spirituality, you need therefore the prayers of the saints that will enable you not to miss the Lord in the moment. Because there's always a tension like even now in all of the things that are before me.
08:21 -  Is this what the Lord is wanting? It encloses the opportunity which he wills to be realized in and through us now. It encloses therefore the mystery of the grateful response we now owe to him and in consequence to our fellow man.
08:39 -  Only now can we see how significant it is that every now in its particular relation to the past and future is an opportunity which comes only once and then perceived and grasped or not passes never to return. He's spelling the word now with a capital N.
08:58 -  And we need to spell it with a capital N also. We need to capitalize now. Because if it's not grasped and perceived and passes, it passes never to return.
09:12 -  It's a loss that cannot be regained. You may try the same thing tomorrow but it will not be the same thing because it was intended for now. Only now can we see that each now is indeed a now or never.
09:26 -  The absoluteness of this. Therefore our life would be lived in a tension of trembling. Not something that's going to rigidly tie us in knots but it's a healthy respect for time, for the now, for the moment that is now.
09:42 -  And that we would have to say with Paul, who is sufficient for these things? You know what I'm appreciating about this morning? That we have never before heard or expressed in my memory is the way that you guys have prayed for me before I would speak.
09:53 -  I don't recall this ever happening before. Well, there may have been a polite prayer or two. But I sensed this morning that in praying for me, you guys knew that we're in something together.
10:02 -  We're wanting and needing something from God. And I'm the appointed messenger for this morning. And I appreciated that you put your heart into that prayer.
10:11 -  Because we're in something together for this now. You esteemed this moment. You knew that something was wanting to come forth that is beyond any man's ability to perform.
10:21 -  And you're calling upon God for grace through this piece of earth to bring forth what is in his heart from now. I think that we've struck a new chord. And I'm grateful for it.
10:33 -  And my prayer is that we will always retain it. We'll never again fall back into that commonplace mentality that is descriptive of much of the Church. We'll let George do it.
10:44 -  Arch the Pro. He can handle this. I mean, what is a little Sunday morning after the guy's been displaced in that place?
10:51 -  So we lean back in the kind of confidence of one's professional ability rather than to know that if God is present in the now, it's not an issue of professionalism. It's an issue of the Spirit of God that everything will contend against.
11:08 -  And that it needs therefore the heartfelt joint prayer of the saints because they esteemed the now moment. They know it's now or never. He quotes the German poet Schiller who says,
11:22 -  What you abstract from the minute, no eternity can restore. My Lord. So you, dear young guys going to school,
11:34 -  you have a choice before you to look upon it as a kind of a humdrum mechanical requirement through which you must pass or the excitement and the potential of each day bringing its own now, its own issues, its own revelation, its own friendships,
11:53 -  hearing something from the teacher, being required to express something before a teacher or before your classmates or just the time in the hallway or whatever. It's a day that will not again be given. It's a now time.
12:05 -  And you need to approach it with an esteem and an appreciation that derives the value. That you go in expectation that God has something in that present day and in that present now for you. And if you want to receive it and be benefited by it and grow by it.
12:21 -  And I'll tell you that your growth will be unparalleled because I sat from the age of six or seven in a Hebrew school every day after public school to be prepared for Bar Mitzvah. From the age of six or seven to the age of 13, I was every day in Hebrew school in Brooklyn.
12:39 -  My brother also learning Hebrew to chant my portion. They could know what it would be when I'd be 13. And on that Shabbat, I'd have to chant a portion of the Haftorah out of the prophets.
12:51 -  And we had to learn how to inflect our voices and rise and fall. Not a word about the content, but just the performance. Day after day, I wanted to be out on the sidewalk playing.
13:03 -  I want to be with all my friends. What I have to do in this musty urine smelling chalky place, men with yellow beards in a basement. It would a dreary thing.
13:15 -  Well, I went because every mother's got to send her boy to Hebrew school. Get him Bar Mitzvah. But you may have heard this from me before.
13:24 -  A young kid came into our class. He was only weeks short of his 13th birthday. And something had happened in his family that they felt that he should now be Bar Mitzvah.
13:35 -  And he had to make up in a few weeks what I had spent years in seeking to learn. And I watched this kid roll up the sleeves and pull up the sleeves and bend over his desk and set himself to learn the Hebrew alphabet. Olive, Beth, Gimel, Dalet.
13:51 -  He went over it, looked at the letter, said it. Olive, Beth, Gimel, Dalet. Hey, love.
13:58 -  It was a revelation. I had never seen anyone willfully, consciously apply himself to learn. He took advantage of the now.
14:06 -  Like I thought you learned by sitting in a class for seven years. Like a teabag steeping in water. Somebody comes out.
14:15 -  In fact, he comes in like osmosis. I didn't know that learning could be a conscious, willful process that there's an application, that you can seize the moment, that you can assert yourself and do something and get something.
14:28 -  That kid got more in three weeks than I was getting in six years. And so I know as a high school teacher that the same kind of mentality prevails in the public schools as it does in the Hebrew schools. Kids sit and get through and get promoted and get graduated and get unchanged.
14:49 -  So I'm encouraging the young people in the room to take hold of the now that God has given and receive its full benefit. It's not enough even just to eat the meat around the bone, but to suck the marrow out of the bone. As we have said again and again, that's the sweetest portion and the most nutritious.
15:08 -  But few there be that will derive and draw from the moment what God has invested in it. It's interesting as I travel and I stay at different homes. In some places I'm just a dull flood.
15:21 -  You know, well, they've provided hospitality. In other places, we're up to the late hours where things are transacted of the most intense kind. It's up to them.
15:31 -  There I am with all whatever God has invested in me, whatever that potential is, waiting to be drawn upon and drawn from. And some don't even know how to do that.
15:42 -  They're just there at the level of such superficiality. Are you OK? I'll see you tomorrow morning. And others, I've only been thinking, what's your opinion about this?
15:54 -  I'm having this problem. And boy, you're off onto something, Dave. They took the now and drew the substance and the sustenance from it and got great value.
16:05 -  What I've seen God do in moments is extravagant, busy moments. What he can do in a moment, if we know how to redeem the moments. But if we're slack and one day is like another, one conversation like another,
16:17 -  a ship's passing in the night, we miss it. If the body is suffering from malnutrition, it's not because they're not riches of nutrition there, it's that we've not drawn them.
16:28 -  And every one of us has a history. The adult saints in this community has a particular cast in God and persuasion, background that God has quickened and invested.
16:39 -  If we can draw from that, esteem the fellowship. Let the Lord guide our conversation, knowing that when we come together, there's a now that God wants esteemed, appreciated and obtained.
16:53 -  I see that in our morning prayer times. If you guys are absenting yourself in that morning prayer time, you are missing unbelievable wealth.
17:02 -  Those who don't know what we are about are in that condition because they're not in a place where the vision and what we are about is continually being propounded, being touched, being expressed, being expanded,
17:15 -  being refined in the interaction between those who assemble in that prayer time, who come without an agenda of their own. But there's a now. I can't wait for tomorrow morning.
17:26 -  I know tomorrow morning's now will be unlike what yesterday's was. Each morning's time is particular and specific, and God is present in that now. It will be now or it will not come again.
17:44 -  How do we know that what we now consciously or unconsciously omit is only a paltry thing and not the turning point which determines a whole being in time, both past and future?
17:55 -  God bless this man. If he never said anything else and died, that's enough to honor him eternally. Read that line again.
18:05 -  Yeah, read that again. Just one second. I don't know how he pours up like this. I don't even think he's conscious of what is issuing from him.
18:16 -  But listen to this. We know that what we now consciously or unconsciously omit, leave out, neglect, is only a paltry thing.
18:27 -  What does it mean, paltry? P-A-L-T-R-Y. Inconsequential. It's of no real significance. How do we know that and not the actual turning point
18:37 -  which determines our whole being in time, both past and future? How do we know at any moment what that moment represents, what that now represents that we think we can dismiss idly
18:50 -  when it might well contain the very turning point for our whole past and future? Any moment in God, when God is present in the now, that now contains that potential.
19:01 -  As if time is some kind of mechanical thing by which we can chop when we get up and go to bed and not esteem it for what the thing is in itself
19:09 -  as the provision by God, of God, that is in the now and that at any one of those moments can be a turning point for all our future.
19:21 -  And we don't know at which moment and we will not get it unless we esteem it. It could be there and we could miss it
19:28 -  if we are bland about it and nonchalant and let it go. I would say that what makes Karl Barth Karl Barth is that he's the man who has esteemed all his laws
19:38 -  and now we receive the value. You don't come to an understanding like this mechanically. This is a precious, rich, holy insight
19:49 -  that comes from a man who has wrestled in esteemed time and knows what it means. There are moments like this indeed in the strict sense
19:56 -  all moments are like this. It's not that occasionally a moment might come that would be utterly significant and affect all our future.
20:05 -  What he's saying is all our moments are like this. All our moments have the potential to affect all our future if they are rightly esteemed.
20:15 -  At any rate we have to reckon with each moment because God himself has particular moments in his being, speech and action in relation to us.
20:24 -  Moments which continually come and go. Now is no time for dreaming about past or future. Now is the time to awake, to receive or act.
20:32 -  His speech will be silent to say yes or no. What does this moment require? My dear brother now gone on, I hope to be with the Lord
20:39 -  that only the Lord knows what he received in his final moment lived continually in the past. If only this had happened instead of that.
20:49 -  If that had happened instead of this had happened then that would have been... His presence was null and void
20:57 -  because he continually cast himself in the frustration and the defeat of the past. Therefore he could not avail himself of the present moment
21:05 -  and he died in that condition. I don't know how many millions live like that. Ruin the past or just as fanciful about their future.
21:15 -  Speculating about the future kind of a dreamy if this will happen, if that. Both things negate the value of the present now.
21:25 -  It's as if now is like an anchor of reality for both the right consideration of the past and the future. Now is no time to send us, to send as our proxy
21:37 -  a recollected or expected picture of ourselves, a ghost or an ideal to act under our mask. Now we must step out and act as the men we really are.
21:46 -  Now we must step out. And I can tell you that when the moment comes to step out we have every reason not to do so.
21:53 -  We're not ready. We're not prepared. There's more to consider. Of course. There's always more to consider.
22:00 -  But now has come and you step out in what you have. You know what you'll find? It's more than adequate for that moment.
22:06 -  You have already more than you need for that now. But your apprehension, your fear, your anxiety. I praise God that in my university experience
22:16 -  I had a deadline. There was a paper that had to be in on January 1st, whatever that year was, and I couldn't say I'm not ready.
22:25 -  There's so much more that needs to be said. I need more time. But I had to keep the deadline.
22:31 -  And because I had a deadline, somehow it all came together remarkably. So we need this.
22:39 -  Because we always want to defer, procrastinate, and set for a later time what God is wanting now. Give him the now.
22:48 -  Don't make excuses. Don't procrastinate. Because the later time will not come in the way that the now has. The urgency of the moment demands absolute sincerity and readiness.
22:59 -  Someone said to me, how long did it take you to write that speech? That was a marvelous speech.
23:06 -  For maybe two hours, he said, a lifetime. So what is our readiness? Our readiness is our continual preparedness before the Lord.
23:16 -  It's our continual availing ourselves of every present now, of things that we hear, that we read, we obtain in discussion, we enjoy in the prayer meeting, the Sunday service.
23:26 -  There's a continual study. I've been into so many things this week. So that when God wants, he can flow out
23:34 -  any of those things for that present now. In a sense, we're never ready. In a sense, we're always called to readiness.
23:42 -  So the urgency of the moment demands absolute sincerity and readiness. A general and therefore unGodly view of time and of the present certainly cannot give dissuade and promise
23:51 -  and claim to our being in the now. It's unGodly to defer. It's unGodly not to act in the moment that God requires it.
24:01 -  But it is given with supreme clarity and necessity by the concept of time, given by God and therefore real. Because we are under God and for him, as we now are,
24:11 -  there is no evading the importance of the now and no excuse for missing it or misusing it. Lord, is that you speaking?
24:22 -  No excuse. Now has come. And there's no... Whatever justification we think we can give,
24:30 -  God says that we have none, because we are under God and for him, as we now are.
24:38 -  There is no evading the importance of the now and no excuse for missing or misusing it. Sometimes any brother here who has the obligation
24:47 -  to share the word will know the feeling that when it's time for you to speak, you're always looking, is there somebody else who has a word?
24:55 -  If only I can get off the... If I can be relieved and let it come from someone else. But no, it's come for you. The now has come.
25:04 -  And you've got to act in that moment, because God is there. And we...
25:13 -  We injure him by missing the moment or misusing it. But there is also no absence of his grace and mercy in our now. Hey, that's comforting.
25:24 -  If God is present in the now, then his grace and mercy are present with him, even though we think ourselves unable and incapable
25:32 -  and not yet ready, his grace and mercy will be given in the now to perform what he's required. Why? Because that's what he is.
25:42 -  If he's present, then grace and mercy are present, because that's what God is. And that's what makes the moment the moment, if we do it.
25:50 -  If we'll act in it, if we'll seize it, God will be there. In whatever deficiency we have, his grace will more than compensate.
25:57 -  I hope that that's true now in this speaking. But there is also no absence of his grace and mercy even in our now. Our present is indeed joyful for in it,
26:06 -  since God is he who is primarily and properly present. Even in our weakness and stupidity, even our missing or misusing of what is offered,
26:14 -  we are not abandoned by him or left to ourselves to the power and wisdom of our own decisions. We may always count on the fact
26:21 -  that the first and final responsibility for us is in his hands, that he forgives sins, protects erring children, and causes tired wayfarers to take their halting steps,
26:30 -  that his wisdom exceeds our folly and his goodness our evil, that he is grateful even though we fall asleep and dream about the past and future,
26:38 -  when we want to be buying up the now, and come our way again. What a God that is.
26:44 -  He knows our frames and we are as dust, and we continually default, but he is more than an adequate compensation,
26:52 -  and his goodness is greater than our evil, and however tired we are as wayfarers who take halting steps, and I know what that feels like,
27:01 -  his wisdom, his power exceeds our deficiencies. He is grateful even though we fall asleep. Even in the particularity of his presence,
27:12 -  which we have failed to see or use or perhaps misuse, he will not have been present to us in vain. Without us, against us, but finally for us,
27:22 -  he will have fulfilled our now according to his will, even though we have not responded to his offer, summons, and invitation. How many events have we missed because we have defaulted,
27:33 -  because we have procrastinated, because we have not esteemed time, to not esteem time is to not esteem God,
27:40 -  because God is in time, and in the present time, in the now time. How much have we missed in the years that we have lived,
27:47 -  because we have blindly or actually deferred. So maybe if we are going to appreciate and come into this, the first requirement is a repentance for lost time,
27:57 -  for failing to value time, failing to esteem our days, and to number our days,
28:05 -  because they will never come our way again. In particular, of what past can we think without being driven back to seek refuge in his grace and mercy?
28:16 -  What future can we imagine when it will not be our consolation that he will always be much greater
28:22 -  with his presence and gifts than our greatest skill and the exertion to do justice to the opportunity offered? This then is how the present is filled.
28:31 -  It is real. And from this, we are entitled to conclude that all our time is real,
28:38 -  that we are really in time, that we really have time. Don't say you don't have time.
28:44 -  You can say that you have misused time, as you've let it squish through your fingers and made one day like another,
28:52 -  but don't say you don't have time. God has given time and has ordained what the now moment should contain
29:01 -  so that we are without excuse not to act in it and to seize the grace of God present in that moment. God's presence and gift creates,
29:12 -  delivers, and sustains this reality. This means judgment and grace. This is the mystery of the whole gospel of the whole world.
29:19 -  But this means that though we are sinners, we have forfeited our time and indeed ourselves.
29:25 -  And as we were created, so we are sustained and delivered. The last note is hopeful,
29:31 -  that though we have defaulted, God is gracious in his mercy, and he can even make up with the canker worm that stole him.
29:41 -  And that needs to be our prayer. So let me go from that to the two selections,
29:53 -  back to back, from Oswald Chambers on repentance, that somehow has come up
30:00 -  in these very days in our consideration. If you're not reading Oswald Chambers every day, you're missing the now.
30:09 -  It's part of God's provision in the day. So I'm reading from December 7th and December 8th, speaking from the scripture
30:20 -  on the Godly sorrow work of repentance unto salvation. And it begins by saying, conviction of sin is one of the rarest things
30:29 -  that ever strikes a man. So conviction of sin, that is true conviction, is a Holy Ghost phenomenon.
30:37 -  We can have convictions of another kind. We can berate ourselves and wring our fingers and seem to be repentant,
30:47 -  but it's not the repentance which is of God. It's a worldly sorrow, not a Godly sorrow. The Godly sorrow that worketh repentance is God-given,
30:56 -  and it's given by the Spirit, and it's a very rare phenomenon. And as I read this, I thought,
31:02 -  the thing that makes it rare is that we ourselves have presumed upon God and substitute our own brand of repentance
31:10 -  rather than wait for His. And if we're going to do that, force us, will not give us the perfect
31:19 -  if we are choosing and opting for a human equivalent of the kind of thing that only God Himself can give.
31:27 -  Jesus Christ said that when the Holy Spirit came, He would convict of sin, and when the Holy Spirit rouses a man's conscience
31:34 -  and brings him into the presence of God, it is not his relationship with men that bother sin, but his relationship with God.
31:40 -  Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. The martyrs of conviction of sin,
31:48 -  forgiveness, and holiness are so interwoven that it's only the forgiven man who is the holy man. He proves he is forgiven
31:55 -  by being the opposite to what he was by God's grace. You can know whether you have a phony equivalent of repentance or the true.
32:03 -  The true repentance will always culminate in a transformed life. It will always express itself and show itself
32:11 -  in a difference of character and life. But phony repentance, however much there may be wailing
32:17 -  and ringing of fingers and consternation and anguish and so on, leaves the person still in that same condition.
32:24 -  The martyrs of conviction of sin that comes from God by the Holy Spirit brings a forgiveness and holiness so interwoven
32:33 -  that it is only the forgiven man who is the holy man. He proves he is forgiven by being the opposite to what he was by God's grace.
32:41 -  True repentance must necessarily bring true change. Repentance always brings a man to this point by his sin. The surest sign that God is at work
32:50 -  is when a man says this and means it. Anything less than this is a remorse for having made blunders
32:56 -  that reflects action of disgust at himself. This is so remarkably important to consider. The difference between an authentic conviction
33:08 -  by the Holy Spirit under repentance and something that seems like it and is close to it, but is altogether human,
33:16 -  soulish and emotional, which is a remorse and a kicking of ourselves for our own failed disappointment in ourselves.
33:26 -  And that is not repentance. That is self still not willing to relieve itself, demanding of itself a certain standard of behavior
33:39 -  that it might be justified in itself. Godly sorrow is not your kicking yourself for your boo-boos and that you are disappointed to yourself
33:49 -  for your failed performance or the things which you have allowed in your life that are a disgrace and a scandal and a shame to you.
33:55 -  That's human disappointment. That's human sorrow. That's worldly sorrow. Godly sorrow is that against me and thee only have I sinned.
34:04 -  And I've done this even in your sight. And what compounds my error the more is that I profess to know you and to honor you
34:12 -  and yet I have dismissed you as if you are a no-God. And we're not there when I took this liberty. What is being revealed here is not a boo-boo or a missed thing,
34:25 -  but I have a condition of such a kind that only your blood and your atonement can answer it. Not my wringing my fingers
34:36 -  and for this failed moment or that failed moment, but those failed moments are the index to a failed condition since Adam, which I have never before rightly seen.
34:46 -  And what I have been trying to do is to win your approval and the approval of men by my track record and what I can do consistently.
34:55 -  And what I'm sorry about is my failure in that. My remorse is I missed it here and I've discussed it with myself. That is not repentance.
35:04 -  So it's quite evident that a Godly sorrow is a God-given sorrow. And maybe our mistake is we've not waited long enough for it. We want so much to be alleviated of our conscience or our sense of guilt
35:19 -  or want to win the esteem of men that we rush in to perform our own repentance, which is worldly. And though it's sorrowful, it brings no change.
35:28 -  In fact, the very act not only defers and takes away from God, it deepens the very sin that God is wanting to meet. For it is the very sin.
35:37 -  It is self acting for itself in the place of God. For every sin in the last analysis is being as God. That was the first sin in the garden.
35:47 -  That's our continuous sin to be as God. That is to say, we'll perform our own repentance. It's interesting that when it comes to Israel,
35:56 -  they don't have a cotton-picking thing to do about it. It comes down from above. The Holy Spirit gives them the spirit of supplication and a prayer,
36:03 -  or else they could not repent at all. They'll never be able to boast. We retained God.
36:08 -  We came back because we repented, not a bit. It's because He gave us a spirit of repentance. We would have been totally incapable.
36:16 -  God is God. It's not to be a Godly sorrow. The entrance into the Kingdom is through the panging pains,
36:23 -  the travail of repentance, crashing into a man's respectable and supposed goodness. Then the Holy Ghost who produces these agonies,
36:31 -  we can't self produce them. We can produce an equivalent. The fact that we're miserable is not the evidence that we're repentant.
36:41 -  It's a miserableness that we ourselves have created. In fact, it becomes for us a kind of compensation and a substitute. We think that it's almost like the Catholic, what do you call it?
36:53 -  Penance. Penance. Well, I'm feeling miserable.
36:57 -  I'll get calluses on my knees by walking the steps to Rome. That's not repentance. It's an instant act.
37:05 -  It's a law. It's a performance. Meaning your own instead of God, which is what the sin itself is.
37:13 -  You're trying to heal sin and you deepen the sin by your own effort. Because then we are playing the place of goodness and bringing a premature comfort that only the Holy Ghost can bring
37:24 -  after the Holy Ghost has first brought the agony of revelation, of the truth of our condition, and we want to spare that person.
37:32 -  That's what these callous menace are doing with Israel. They want to make nice now. They want to placate now.
37:37 -  They want to ease them now. They want to comfort them now before the time when comfort should come. This is the bedrock of Christianity, Chamber says.
37:49 -  And strictly speaking, a man cannot repent when he chooses. Repentance is a gift of God. That's the gratitude that leads to the praise.
37:59 -  The praise is not a vacuous thing that we can perform. It's something that issues out of a gratitude for what God has performed as the gift of repentance, which is the foundation of the faith.
38:12 -  If you ever cease to know the value of repentance, you're in darkness. Examine yourself, he says. But we trample the blood of the Son of God in the foot
38:21 -  if we think we are forgiven because we are sorry for our sins. If the issue of forgiveness is our feeling sorry, then the premium is upon our feeling rather than upon the blood of the Lamb
38:35 -  and the death of Jesus by which the blood was issued. We have to be careful that our confidence is not what we are expressing in our sorrow, but our confidence is in the provision that God has made
38:46 -  through the death of his Son and through the blood that was shed. The only explanation of the forgiveness of God and the unfathomable death of his forgetting is the death of Jesus Christ.
38:57 -  That's the issue. You can almost say that false repentance is the last cry of self, the last attempt for self to be established by itself, independent of God.
39:12 -  And so in the wisdom of God, he has seen to it that we can't come into such a back door. He's absolute in his requirement that it's his Son alone. The recognition of that death and the blood that was shed from the process
39:26 -  that constitutes forgiveness and not our desire for forgiveness, our feeling sorry for our sins. Don't put the emphasis on what is internal with you, but put it on what is external with him or else you have not the salvation of God
39:40 -  and you continue to stew in your juice and you are never relieved from it. The torment which she has worked out for us in the death of Jesus, who has made unto us wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption.
39:55 -  When we realize that Christ has made all this to us, the boundless joy of God begins. Wherever the joy of God is not present, the death sentence is at work. Two symptoms, two indexes by which we can know whether we have come to an authentic repentance
40:10 -  or are only living off our own. One is the changed life, character of that life, the holy life. Not that it's going to be perfected all at once and that we are with a halo
40:21 -  and we're not capable of stumbling or falling. But the essential cast of the life is in God and for God. And the other is joy.
40:30 -  Joy is something that cannot be human produced yet. So, check to see that that is the truth of your life. Wherever the joy of God is not present, the death sentence is at work.
40:45 -  It does not matter who or what we are. That is to say, it doesn't matter how we believe in our sin, how vile our sin. The issue is not that we feel all the more wretched because our sins are more abominable than another.
40:55 -  It doesn't matter what they are in themselves. There is absolute reinstatement into God by the death of Jesus Christ and by no other way. Not because Jesus Christ pleads or that we plead, but because he died.
41:09 -  We've got to be rooted in the fact of the atonement of the death of Jesus Christ at the cross and not look at ourselves and think that by forcing something, by feeling really sorry and crying copious tears and feeling wretched,
41:25 -  that we will have attended. That might be the very thing that keeps us from doing that. It's let go, let God.
41:33 -  Trust him for that work on the cross. Take the emphasis off yourself and how sorry you feel and how miserable you are and what a terrible sinner.
41:43 -  How could you have done that? What a disappointment you are to yourself. Yes, you deserve it.
41:47 -  That's you, you, you, you, you. Take it and take it on him, him, him. That's salvation.
41:56 -  When we realize that Christ has made all this to us, the boundless joy of God begins. Not because we plead, but because he died. It is not earned, but accepted.
42:06 -  All the pleading which deliberately refuses to recognize the cross is of no avail. It is battering at another door than the one which Jesus has opened. I don't want to come that way.
42:16 -  It's too humiliating to be received as a sinner. But there is no other name. The apparent heartlessness of God is the expression of his real heart
42:24 -  that is boundless entrance into his way. What does he mean by that, that God seems heartless? He'll not give an inch.
42:32 -  He's not going to accommodate you. You can plead, you can cry, you can wring your fingers, you can stretch out on the floor.
42:37 -  He's not going to meet you on that ground. It's still you centered in yourself trying to obtain something as a work of repentance issuing from yourself.
42:45 -  He's made one way and he's heartless in his insistence on it. He'll not deviate, he'll not make an accommodation however sincere you are in wringing your fingers and crying your tears
42:56 -  because he knows that this is the way to life. I am the way, the truth, and the life. There's no other way.
43:03 -  And God will allow you to be suffused with your fears again and again, but he'll not meet you on that ground, only on the ground that he himself has provided in the death of his son.
43:15 -  There's nowhere the name. The apparent heartlessness of God is the expression of his real heart. That's love.
43:21 -  Would the God that we were like that, that we ourselves would not be accommodating to one another on grounds other than righteousness.
43:28 -  And even though we might appear heartless and we'll be accused of being loveless as I'm often accused or arrogant of, it's the insistence that really reveals the true heart.
43:38 -  It's because we're out for the true thing that we're willing to be misconstrued as that. So we have to be like God.
43:45 -  He'll not give an inch. He'll stand on the righteousness of what he has provided because he wants the real thing.
43:52 -  He knows eternity is at stake. And when we know it, we ourselves will be like that to one another. And though it may seem to be heartless,
43:59 -  why is that guy like that? Why did he say that? But why is he silent when I want his comfort?
44:04 -  It's the purpose of God being served and it's the revelation of the true and the better heart. It's God's heart.
44:11 -  We have forgiveness through his blood. Identification with the death of Jesus Christ means identification with him to the death of everything that was never in him.
44:20 -  God is justified in saving bad men only as he makes them good. Our Lord does not pretend we are all right when we are all wrong. Praise God he doesn't pretend.
44:29 -  The Atonement is a propitiation whereby God through the death of Jesus makes an unholy man holy. These are my own comments on the margin.
44:39 -  Not on the basis of our merit or our virtue. What we're trying to do is to twist God's arm and have him to recognize us on what we think is our deepest virtue and merit
44:51 -  and be accepted on that basis. Oh Lord, I don't want to be accepted as a sinner. I want to be accepted on the basis of my virtue.
44:59 -  And I'm holding out for that. And until you accommodate me on that ground, I'm not coming on your ground. God says you have no virtue.
45:07 -  Virtue is only God. So we're disappointed because we want to be accepted in what we think is our truest self. We're disappointed in our failures and confuse that with repentance for our sin
45:22 -  which is not even yet recognized as the truth of our essential condition and our very persistence in trying to force God's hand to accommodate us on our basis with us at the center is that very sin
45:35 -  which is being strengthened by our refusal to bow before God's provision. So I write here in conclusion. Have we been barking up the wrong tree?
45:46 -  Reciting the creed without its true recognition? Displacing the consideration of Jesus and him crucified with the preoccupation with ourselves and our failure, our inadequate repentance,
45:57 -  our inability to fathom the exceedingly sinfulness of sin when we are ironically demonstrating in our jewellous remorse what is the truth about ourselves as sinners?
46:10 -  So I think there may have been barking up the wrong tree and they're getting no answer. And their anguish also continues rather than the great rejoicing of God
46:21 -  when we have come to that cross and trusted him, the confidence in what he has performed and not something that we can wring out of him by any demonstration of ourselves
46:31 -  which is in work. So Lord, I don't know how these two things go together but surely they are both foundational to the faith,
46:41 -  to the life of a belittled community and because you have given them in this now moment that is once and before, if this had been deferred to next Sunday
46:52 -  we would not have had the same value, it would be something else because next Sunday has its own purpose, now has come in this work and it's current and it's right in keeping
47:02 -  with crisis right in our own community. So we thank you Lord and we ask for a grace that you said would be with us in the moment, in the present moment.
47:12 -  The grace to understand, the grace to believe, the grace to appropriate, the grace to receive what you are speaking my God and the grace to repent wherever we have fallen short of it
47:23 -  in repentance, that is the true repentance that comes with the conviction of your spirit. For a full salvation obtained by our own emotional intensity
47:36 -  for the failure to redeem the time, to allow the time to squirt through our fingers, not to number our days, to be procrastinators, to put off, to postpone
47:46 -  because we're not ready as if the God who is always ready is not present in the moment that he requires. Thank you Lord, you've never failed me once that I know, you've never.
47:56 -  When I was at Charles Schmidt's church on this trip exhausted with a terrible head cold, driving almost 600 miles in that day I had to arrive at the church 20 minutes before the service
48:07 -  in a completely run down condition, my face was just running with snot and tears, I had to wash quickly and come out on the platform and my head was hazy, I didn't say, excuse me folks, I'm not in condition
48:21 -  maybe another time, I knew that this was the time and I said to Mark, if tomorrow my head clears up I know that the condition is expressly given of God
48:30 -  to demonstrate to Charles who serves actively out of his own ability what God is waiting for in him, mainly to make God's direction perfect in his weakness, he's a man who's unwilling to be weak
48:43 -  and I stood before that congregation in weakness and when the Lord poured out, it was something remarkable that in the breakfast the next day at the restaurant
48:51 -  two men came from the prayer meeting, sat down alongside us every man was on his face, they said, from last night we've already been to Charles, how is it that you're not having this man speak Sunday?
49:01 -  we've never heard such a word, never seen such power never seen such an annoying thing out of weakness and I came and I did not defer from it because I was not ready
49:12 -  or my condition was not compliant God was in that now and made every provision all the more through the weakness to glorify himself
49:23 -  so my God we thank you for this holy faith and this way call us into the way everlasting Jesus is the way, the life and the truth in every moment
49:36 -  and we esteem the moments Lord, you've given us a precious moment today it's a now that will not come again, quite the way that it has come and we thank you for it
49:46 -  even the children in the room have got to be affected by this now whether their minds have comprehended it in part or not at all because you're present and your grace is with us
49:57 -  something has to be communicated to them so we bless you Lord oh you're so good to us my God, you're so faithful
50:04 -  at radio broadcasts, at Sunday mornings, at the daily prayer meetings there's nothing my God in which you do not make yourself available in full in grace and in mercy when we say yes to the now that has come
50:16 -  bless us Lord, bring healing to this body bring true deliverance, bring true repentance, bring true joy we thank and give you praise of all that comes from yoga
50:27 -  we bless you, receive our gratitude, receive our praise in Yeshua's holy name