The Earth is the Lords

00:00 -  If you are expecting lectures, I think you are going to be disappointed, because lectures imply something ordered and neat and established. I think this is going to be more in the form of a birth.
00:45 -  Painful, dirty, unpleasant, but the end is joy. I personally am overwhelmed by many impressions. I have never felt myself more ignorant about anything than Japan.
01:43 -  I have been sucking up all of the impressions of these brief days, and I think that the Spirit has already been giving some revelation and light. I hope you will be patient to participate with me in this process of birth.
02:24 -  I believe in God that it is going to be historically and eternally important. A first speaking of its kind in Japan. And I don't know how to begin.
02:52 -  And that's appropriate that I don't know. It's already a revelation of the faith of Jesus Christ, which is not predicated upon the knowing of man, but the revelation of the Spirit which comes down from above.
03:21 -  Jesus was himself very insistent about this very thing. He said that everything must be born from above. So let's pray together.
03:46 -  Thank you precious God that you are the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. How shall man himself presume to know how to begin? We simply pray and trust.
04:17 -  Lead us where you will and as you will. Give us patience to wait for this fruit. Bring it forth as something eternally valuable.
04:40 -  Have mercy upon us who are mere men. Give us an understanding. The perspective of things as you yourself see them.
04:59 -  That we might be fitted for your use in this hour. Come and let this time be important for this nation. For Asia and for all the earth we say, thy kingdom come.
05:29 -  In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen. Well maybe we can begin with Psalm 24, something of which we all need to be reminded.
05:59 -  The earth is the Lord's and all that contains the world and those who dwell in it. For he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers. Do you really know that?
06:28 -  Our Christian behavior does not seem to express this. We are much too timid and modest in our activity. Our expectations are too limited and too human.
07:03 -  Because we do not see as God sees. We see humanly and horizontally things as men see them. But if we can really see things as God sees them, that would be wonderful.
07:35 -  The Bible says that everything in this world is influenced by the things in Yokosama. Because Christ has already made a triumph over him and made an open spoil of him. So he does not have any legal right to continue to possess the world as if it were his own.
08:19 -  He is an illegal usurper and is ruling by fraud. An illegal usurper. You know what that means? To usurp, to steal.
08:31 -  And he is ruling by fraud and by deceit. We have too easily allowed that to be true. There is no statement more pleasing to God than Japan for Jesus.
09:15 -  And Jews for Jesus. For the earth is the Lord. The world and all it contains.
09:35 -  We need to have the perspective of God. Because the world is so much of the world yet under the rule of Satan. Because the church of Jesus Christ has not insisted upon this.
10:02 -  It has allowed the world so easily to be the possession of the enemy. We were told to pray, thy kingdom come on earth as it is in heaven. But we don't actually ourselves expect that.
10:47 -  Unto us a child is born and unto us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulder. And it says in Isaiah 97 that there will be no end to the increase of his government or of his peace.
11:10 -  On the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on and for ever. Let this sink deeply into our hearing and into our understanding. From the day of the coming of the sun there was a government that was to be increased and without any end.
12:09 -  From then on and for ever. God intends that all of the earth come under the authority and the government of this child that was born and this son that was given. God intends to rule over the nations.
12:45 -  The church is not a cultural supplement for Sundays. It is the organic glory given of God to rule and to reign in the earth. Turn to Psalm 67.
13:11 -  God be gracious to us and bless us and cause this face to shine upon us that thy way may be made known on the earth and thy salvation among all nations. We need a vision of the church which is something more than a Sunday supplement to society. We need a vision of the church which is something more than a Sunday supplement to society.
14:07 -  But it is the society of God himself. It is already a kingdom come and is coming. The rule is already upon his shoulder.
14:34 -  And of the increase of his government there shall be no end. That the day will come when every knee shall bend and every mouth confess every mouth that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God the Father. That the day will come when every knee shall bend and every mouth confess every mouth that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God the Father.
15:06 -  That thy way may be made known in all the earth And thy salvation to all nations That includes Japan.
15:31 -  But it will not be if we ourselves do not expect it. But it will not be if we ourselves do not expect it. Something more modest, something more religious which even the world will allow us.
15:52 -  So as long as you are content with Sunday services, the world will allow you to continue. But start to challenge the powers that rule over the earth and over nations. And it will not be so pleasant for us as Christians.
16:26 -  The nations themselves are ruled over by the powers of darkness. And the peoples thereof are also therefore in bondage. They think that they are free.
17:15 -  They enjoy a certain kind of lifestyle. But they have no knowledge of God or of eternity and they are victims and prisoners. His salvation must be made known in all nations.
17:41 -  Japan is not being offered yet another religious option. That they can pleasantly consider together with Buddhism, Shintoism and Confucianism and all of the other faiths that have found the home here. Our God is a jealous God and he will share his rule with no one.
18:33 -  Our faith is an exclusive faith and will not consider any rivals. This kind of insistence is infuriating for the world. This kind of insistence is infuriating for the world.
19:16 -  How can you be so dogmatic? Where is your respect for other faiths? America talks about the three great faiths.
19:36 -  I guess Japan can talk about the six great faiths. But I want to remind you that there is only one great faith. It is the faith of the God of Israel.
19:53 -  Or you are insisting upon this brother because you are a Jew. No, I am insisting upon it because it is true. And that truth needs to be made known.
20:11 -  However much it will offend men in the first hearing. I was myself offended when I first heard the faith. I was a relativist and a humanist.
20:34 -  Many paths to truth. And I confronted this Jesus of the Scriptures. This arrogant narrow insistence.
20:50 -  I am the way, the life and the truth. No man comes to the Father but by me. No man.
21:13 -  Have you noticed recently how absolute God is? And are you just as insistent as he is on his absoluteness? Why do I get the impression that your faith is too timid?
21:37 -  Too apologetic! Why do I feel too polite? You will never take Japan like that?
21:53 -  And no man comes to the Father but by me. I don't care how moral he is, how ethical he is, how cultured he is, how intellectual he is. No man.
22:14 -  It's absolute. And I praise God for the absolute insistence of God. Because he knows the human heart, he made it.
22:33 -  He knows what escapists and phonies we are. As I myself was for 35 years. Very spiritual.
22:52 -  Very lofty. Very idealistic in my views. I had my own view of God and reality.
23:04 -  A very convenient view. Which also allowed me to fornicate and to sin. But the same God who is absolute about himself is also absolute about sin.
23:30 -  Thou shalt not. I'm just reading now about the Japanese mind. And about its whole religious history.
23:52 -  It doesn't matter whether you're talking about Buddhism or Shintoism or Confucianism. It has this interesting fact in common. There is no moral personal content to these religions.
24:26 -  There is no absolute thou shalt not. There is no absolute statement in the Bible that you should not do this. They emphasize harmony and tranquility and aesthetics and other pleasing values.
25:03 -  But they have nothing to say about sin and eternity. Only the God of Israel does. Do you have the effrontery and the arrogance to insist upon your God before other men?
25:29 -  Isn't that narrow of you? What are you trying to do? Impose your Western religious views on Eastern peoples? I can see many of you grow weak when you will be so accused.
26:01 -  Maybe that's true. I shouldn't insist that my way is the only way. We really need to be more broad minded than that.
26:25 -  After all, you're likely to offend the Japanese people. You have to go real slow. They have to grow into an understanding.
26:51 -  What Japan needs are some Apostle Pauls. When he spoke to the Greeks, he did not mince words. I perceive in all things, you're too superstitious.
27:11 -  When Paul spoke to the Greeks, he didn't mince words. He wasn't walking on eggshells. I see that in all things, you're too superstitious.
27:31 -  I heard what he said, as if he was talking about something very superstitious. When Paul spoke to the Greeks, he thought that the religion that the Greeks had was very superstitious. That's the way a man ought to speak who believes that the earth is the Lord's and the nations thereof.
28:18 -  Him whom you ignorantly worship, I declare unto you. I declare that I am the true God. I don't know if you think that's an arrogant attitude.
28:40 -  That's a very humble attitude. Even your view of what humility is has been colored by the world and not given by God. Even your view of humility has come from the world and not from God.
29:02 -  Jesus came and he turned the money-changers tables over. How can you make the house of God a den of thieves? How can you make the house of God a place of thieves?
29:22 -  That's very humility. I don't care that it's loud. It's humble because it's true.
29:34 -  Because speaking like that saves men out of death. We're concerned with more than the issue of courtesy. There's something more important than offending the sensibilities of men.
30:04 -  It's the issue of life and death. It's interesting that when Paul spoke, they didn't grow into an understanding on Mars Hill. It's interesting that when Paul spoke, they didn't grow into an understanding on Mars Hill.
30:45 -  The reactions to his speaking were radical and extreme. The reactions to his speaking were radical and extreme. But some cleaved immediately to him and believed.
31:11 -  This is an appropriate response to the radical word of God. This is an appropriate response to the radical word of God. So the men need radically to be confronted.
31:37 -  For the earth is the Lord and the nations thereof. For the earth is the Lord and the nations thereof. Why should we allow them one day more to languish in darkness and bondage?
32:05 -  We need to speak as if we have the truth. And the only truth. The truth that sets men free.
32:19 -  Proclaimed by men who themselves believe it. And demonstrate that same freedom. Let the peoples praise thee, O God.
32:41 -  Let all the peoples praise thee. Let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for thou wilt judge the people with uprightness
32:47 -  and rule the nations on the earth. Let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for thou wilt judge the people with uprightness
32:54 -  and rule the nations on the earth. For thou wilt judge the nations. Are we proclaiming that to men?
33:16 -  Paul did on Mars Hill. The Greeks had never heard of this before. It was not part of their cultural perspective.
33:34 -  It came to them abruptly by a despised Hebrew. But he spoke to them the foolishness of the faith. And he spoke to them about a day of judgment.
34:00 -  It says in verse 31 of Acts 17, Because he has fixed a day in which he will judge the world. The world.
34:16 -  It says in verse 31 of Acts 17. He has fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. He has fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness.
34:35 -  Japan will also be judged. It will be a fearful day. We may have a very short historical memory.
34:49 -  We might forget the rape of Shanghai or Korea. The rape, the looting, the destruction that came to Asia through Japan's militarism and violence. But God has not forgotten.
35:25 -  There will come a day when he will judge all nations. The world. Men need to be prepared in anticipation of that day.
35:47 -  I don't know whether to smile, laugh or cry when I hear you use the phrase, Japan for Jesus. What, you have a program for them?
36:03 -  You're going to put on some skits and dramatic activity? I have another view to propose to you. If Japan is to be one for Jesus.
36:21 -  If Japan is to be one for Jesus. If there is going to be national revival, it must be preceded by national repentance. The sins of the fathers must be acknowledged as the sins also of the sons.
36:53 -  The sins of our ancestors must be acknowledged by the children. The powers of darkness need to be broken up that are in the heavenly places through repentance. The sins of murder and violence and destruction need to be acknowledged and repented.
37:22 -  The sins of our ancestors must be acknowledged and repented. The sins of our ancestors must be acknowledged and repented. God says in the book of Ecclesiastes, that which is past is now.
37:54 -  And God requires that which is past. Jesus said as your fathers did so do ye also. You also do murder the prophets that are sent unto you.
38:10 -  You also do murder the prophets that are sent unto you. How bewildered those Jews must have been when he said that. How bewildered when they said that.
38:34 -  We've never murdered any prophets. But until you acknowledge that your fathers have, you are guilty of their sin. This is a spiritual principle.
38:53 -  And to act in ignorance of it is to be defeated. There's no way that this nation is going to be taken for Christ until this foundational thing is understood.
39:19 -  The same thing is true for Germany. There'll never be a national revival there until there's a foundational recognition of national repentance.
39:35 -  God has appointed a day in which you will judge the nations. Who shall inform the nations of the soon coming judgment? And who shall show them a basis for such repentance?
40:05 -  Because if we judge ourselves, we need not be judged. Only the church can perform this in the world. Because only the church alone enjoys the perspective of God.
40:35 -  This will require more than skits and dramatizations in the street. And I'm only at the beginning of this in my own understanding. So I was afraid I was going to be overwhelmed and I wouldn't know where to begin.
41:05 -  But brother, is it enough merely to speak and to acknowledge World War II? Is it enough merely to speak about and to acknowledge World War II? No, that's not enough.
41:31 -  What was the origin and cause of it? What do we need to understand about Japanese nationalism and racial pride? The deep thoughts in the history of Japan
42:01 -  that they believe that the deity itself had established these islands that deity was even in the race
42:28 -  and that they were to rule over all of the nations and the seas and that the deity that ruled over all of the nations and the seas was choosing them.
42:58 -  The land of Japan is the land of the heaven, the heaven-shining Goddess. Its emperors were divinely descended.
43:14 -  All the nations were to come under her light. She was to be the fountainhead of all nations. And in all matters she excels all peoples.
43:34 -  These views came to Japanese thought through Shintoism, through Buddhism, through all of its religious Gods.
43:52 -  All of Japan's false religions have reinforced both its government and its society. All of Japan's false religions have reinforced
43:58 -  both its government and its society. And gave it an ethnocentric view of superiority racially and nationally
44:18 -  over other nations. The war is over. The war is over.
44:34 -  But have these things ever been dealt with? It still continues. And the spirit of it
44:46 -  which is arrogant and proud and offensive to God which is arrogant and proud
44:52 -  and offensive to God and for which he will judge the nation. The church is more than Sunday services.
45:14 -  It is God's prophetic presence in the world. Proclaiming the view of God to nations that could not have it for themselves.
45:32 -  That they might repent. And believe the gospel. Believing is not a process of intellectualizing.
45:46 -  Believing is not a process of intellectualizing. Believing is not a process of intellectualizing. It is a function of repenting.
46:00 -  That's why you always read these conjunction of words. Repent and believe.
46:10 -  Believing the gospel is an utterly supernatural phenomenon. You can't come to it by process of intellect.
46:26 -  It is an understanding of foolish things that are supernaturally given from above that you might believe.
46:40 -  By grace are you saved and that by faith and not of yourself
46:51 -  left any man boast. Repent and believe in the gospel. There is only one thing that proud man can do
47:09 -  is to humble himself before God and trust to God for all the rest. But even in this God must take the initiative.
47:25 -  In the beginning was the words and there is no repenting without hearing God's word.
47:37 -  How shall men repent if they have no understanding of their sin? They need to be told
47:51 -  that God has a controversy with Japan. That God is angry with the sinner
48:03 -  every day. That Japan's present prosperity is not a sign of the approval
48:13 -  or the blessing of God. That there is a day in which he will judge the nation
48:27 -  and judge all men. They need to hear such a word that is preached boldly
48:39 -  without compromise. That will insist on the truth as Paul insisted.
48:55 -  This is part of this birth now. This is part of birthing. There is another spasm coming.
49:06 -  There is another spasm coming. It says some clave unto him and believed.
49:20 -  In Acts 17, some clave unto him and believed.
49:26 -  Some scoffed, some said we will hear again of this and some cleaved unto him
49:32 -  and believed. In Acts 17, some clave unto God.
49:50 -  They clave unto God. Maybe I just want to end with this point for this session.
50:06 -  This kind of message cannot be brought in some impersonal way. This is not some easy,
50:24 -  glib kind of word that anyone can speak. Paul said knowing the terror of God I persuade men.
50:44 -  What made his message so compelling was his own personal knowledge of God. He knew God as judge
51:10 -  and he trembled and therefore was able to make men to tremble. Something is required first with us.
51:34 -  We are going to bring the message of repentance to the nation? What we ourselves have never repented?
51:50 -  We are going to tell them that their religions were self-serving and deceitful?
52:04 -  When we have done the same with our own faith, you can take that which is true
52:14 -  and make an idolatry out of it. What we have done in the name of Christ is often as bad as what they have performed
52:32 -  in the name of Buddhism or Shintoism. In the name of the Lord we have thinly disguised our own selfishness and self-seeking.
52:56 -  By such a process made of the true faith of false religion. By such a process made of the true faith
53:04 -  of false religion. Could you understand that our very willingness to be part of a religious system
53:14 -  that is satisfied with mere Sunday services is itself a lie? It needs to be repentance in the church.
53:40 -  We need to pray for the revelation of God as judge. Paul says for God has appointed a day.
53:56 -  The whole apostolic church lived in the anticipation of that day. They lived in such a way
54:04 -  as they thought it was going to come tomorrow. They lived in the fear of God. We have not this sense
54:22 -  and we therefore cannot communicate these things. We have not this sense
54:29 -  and we therefore cannot communicate these things. Judgment begins first in the house of God.
54:42 -  The government shall be upon his shoulder in the church first before it comes to nations. The government shall be upon his shoulder in the church first before it comes to nations.
55:04 -  For example, is the government of your life upon his shoulder? Sure, brother. I mean, why when?
55:16 -  Yeah, but how did you get there? Was it a divine appointment? Or a matter of religious convenience?
55:36 -  What, you had nothing better to do? And you thought that that was sufficient reason? You are a rebel.
55:50 -  You are a rebel. If you have not moved in direct obedience to the explicit call of God.
56:12 -  You would do Japan a favor to leave. You would do Japan a favor to leave. If you are here for your own self-interest
56:24 -  you would do Japan a favor to leave. How shallowly we have dealt with God. You can say that you have not taken care of God.
57:00 -  You can say that you have not taken care of God. Too. I take care of God rather lightly, actually.
57:21 -  I don't want to wear out my interpreter. Do we really have a message for Japan? They clave unto Paul and believed.
57:42 -  The man cannot be separated from his message. This is more than the saying of correct things. It requires men and women who are the message.
58:04 -  It requires men and women who are the message. Japan needs to see the Word made flesh. In the beginning is the Word.
58:27 -  The Word is confrontation. The Word requires radical response. It requires repentance or rejection.
58:50 -  My prayer is that such a Word will come to this nation. I want to stop here now. And pray for this much.
59:06 -  That the Lord will establish something in our heart already. A higher seriousness than when we first came into this room. This is something more than lectures.
59:29 -  This is God troubling us. The hour is very short. The day of the Lord is much nearer than when Paul spoke it.
59:50 -  Men need to be confronted now. Who are worshipping God ignorantly. Willing to hear any new thing.
01:00:08 -  But unwilling to be converted. To the God who owns all the earth and the nations thereof. And before whom every knee must bow.
01:00:26 -  And every tongue confess. Hours first. That Jesus is Lord.
01:00:36 -  Not our convenience. Precious Jesus. My prayer is that these words will be as a hammer upon the rock.
01:00:52 -  The word of God is a hammer upon the rock. My prayer is that these words will be as a hammer upon the rock. My intention is more than to inform these minds.
01:01:13 -  More important if you break their hearts. Start with us. Have a place of beginning.
01:01:28 -  A day of small beginnings. That Japan can hear the word of God. By those who really can bring it with conviction.
01:01:44 -  By those who really can bring it with conviction. Begin with us we pray. In Jesus name.
01:02:01 -  Don't be quick to look up. Transact something with God with your head bowed. Maybe you are one who is at YWEN because of personal convenience.
01:02:26 -  Have you repented for that? It doesn't matter that it's a religious work or a good work. If you're not in the Lord's place by the will of God, it's a lie.
01:02:45 -  It is self-seeking religion. A false idol. It needs to be repented of.
01:03:06 -  Trust the Lord for his mercy. Allow him to establish his way in you in truth. Or you have no message for anyone.
01:03:30 -  Lord have mercy. For Japan's sake. For a dying world's sake.
01:03:42 -  Begin your judgment with us.