The Melchizedek Priesthood 2

00:00 -  Where two or three are gathered in his name, there he is. It doesn't take many, but it takes two or three of a very particular kind. Real saints who will not withhold speaking the truth in love.
00:14 -  Slowly, remember after six paces and the moving of the Ark of God, they made the sacrifice. So they'll be faltering and inconsistent faith and fear because they've not been this way here too far.
00:29 -  They've only been in the world and in the world, they're self-conscious and privatistic. And they've not known what it means to express their hearts openly. You'll teach them by your example.
00:40 -  Priestliness will and your prayer will bring them progressively into a place where they will be that for you and you will be that for them and one another. This will be a real birthing and everything in the world and the flesh and the devil
00:54 -  will conspire against it. So there'll be a real contest and struggle and you'll be on your face before God and in the holy place in tears and praying for their souls.
01:05 -  Do we love correction or do we resent it when it comes? And who are you to say? What are you anybody?
01:11 -  You know right away what the condition of that person is. Remember what I said about this Japanese interpreter that I had him in visiting the Tabernacle Movement in Japan?
01:21 -  Before hundreds of people, he was made to stand up and face an indictment from the founder of the movement, Professor Tsushima himself, who didn't mince words. Mother Basilica did the same thing in her own fellowship publicly.
01:35 -  And the man, his head dropped, he received this indictment and I'm hearing, I don't know what's going on, it's in Japanese. So later that night I'm asking him, what happened that you were publicly required to stand?
01:46 -  And evidently it was some kind of humiliation. Well, Professor Tsushima thought I was sleeping. He was publicly berating me for falling asleep while he's speaking, while the word of
01:56 -  the Lord is coming forth. I said, but you were not sleeping. I said, you were greatly moved.
02:00 -  I could see that. He said, that's right, Art. I was so moved that my head, I couldn't keep my head up.
02:05 -  My head had fallen on my chest, which he misconstrued as having fallen asleep. I said, well, why didn't you then just protest? And I said, no, you got me all wrong.
02:14 -  Oh, no, he said, Art, I needed that. You needed that. What do I need?
02:22 -  If you needed that, hot shot, Brooklyn kid makes good. What do I need if you needed that? I tell you, dear saints, that movement was holy, holy, holy because they received
02:34 -  correction, because they continued their spirit of humility, because they knew their frailty as men. And the remarkable thing is it was a Japanese movement of the one race and culture in the
02:49 -  world that saves face, that has the mask on. What are those women that painted themselves white, the concubines? It's a role.
02:59 -  Geisha girls, the whole play acting, the whole culture shot through with keeping face and not allowing the truth of your life to be shown to others or to acknowledge yourself. Their movement was exactly the up-verse.
03:13 -  It was everything hung out. Everything was true. Everything was expressed.
03:19 -  Everything was known. This man was himself out of a mental institution, suffering a nervous breakdown as a Pentecostal minister, so he had no reputation to preserve.
03:31 -  He could receive correction, desire it. So if we're not vigilant like that and willing for humiliation, and even if the correction is not correct, even if the person lacks that acuity of really finally identifying the point
03:50 -  still to receive it and understand the intent of their heart and be grateful. Someone loves him enough to seek to administer correction even though it may be a bit blunt or not expressed as artfully as we would like.
04:03 -  What if it's clumsy? Well, what if it's crude? Are you a connoisseur that has got to come to you on such
04:10 -  terms that you can receive? That's already you're in trouble. We receive it in whatever form it comes and we're grateful for it.
04:21 -  Of course, that person is taking the risk of love even to express it, but I want to encourage you in that openness that is the required condition for the maintaining of priestly integrity, though there's an element of shame, of embarrassment,
04:38 -  that if I can bear it and let you in on some of those things that are private and personal, you're encouraged also to do likewise. That's why it's done.
04:48 -  That's why I'm sharing it. Okay, so there is a difference between the outer court and the inner, and something is reserved for those who have kept their priestly integrity,
05:02 -  the descendants of Zarak whose name itself means righteousness. They shall come near to me to minister and to me, they shall stand before me to offer unto me the fat and the blood, saith the Lord God.
05:15 -  The two most vital aspects of the sacrifice are not the hide or even the meat, but the fat and the blood is what constitutes the sweet smelling sacrifice or offering. The fat is more the symbol of rest and the best of a condition that issues out of rest,
05:40 -  and the hide is burned with the dunk. What we would consider a value that the Lord allows to be burned and what we would have discarded as waste, the Lord cherishes as the most valuable, the fat,
05:53 -  and of course the blood. And of course the blood. They shall enter, verse 16, into my sanctuary,
05:59 -  they shall come near to my table to minister and to me, they shall keep my charge. And it shall come to pass that when they enter into the gates of the inner court,
06:07 -  they shall be clothed with linen garments. No will shall come upon them while they minister in the gates of the inner court and within. They shall have linen bonnets upon their heads,
06:18 -  they shall have linen breeches upon their loins, they shall not bury themselves with anything that causes sweat. These are all such remarkable prescriptions of what is required to keep flesh out from God
06:31 -  covered in that which is linen. Linen is the garment of righteousness. White, sinless, without violation and nothing that causes sweat,
06:43 -  no exertion or anything that is on that indicates the effort of man. And when they go forth into the outer court, even into the outer court of the people, they shall put off their garments wherein they ministered and lay them in the holy chambers.
07:02 -  They shall put on other garments, they shall not sanctify the people with their garments that have come out from God's own presence. They take that off and they come out for general circulation before the people.
07:14 -  Neither shall they shave their heads nor suffer their locks to grow long, they shall only pull their heads. No external appearance of a supposed priestlyness or propheticness
07:25 -  where you look like the wilderness prophet and fulfill the romantic imagination of others or yourself. There's nothing about you and the cut on your hair, neither long nor short. It either shows celibacy or, what's the word, external separation
07:43 -  or you're some kind of a mystic with a long hoozy behind you. No, just ordinary. Just keep it neat, but don't use it in any way to give an indication of a supposed spirituality, for that is false. That is unclean.
08:05 -  Neither shall any priestly groan when they enter into the inner court, neither shall they take for their wives a widow and so on. They shall teach my people, verse 23, the difference between the holy and the profane.
08:16 -  And I've got the word difference here in King James in italic, the Hebrew word that's here given in italics because it's not a literal translation and cause them to discern between the unclean and the clean, the holy and the common, the sacred and the profane.
08:32 -  Not only by what they say, but by what they are. And in controversy, they shall stand in judgment, they shall judge it according to my judgments, they shall keep my laws, my statutes, and all my assemblies, they shall hallow my Sabbaths.
08:51 -  The priesthood was originally not only the office of intercessor and officiating at sacrifice, but the teaching of the law. And when the priesthood failed, the rabbis took over the Pharisees and established a whole legal system that is the basis of present-day Judaism,
09:09 -  contrary to the spirit of the law that only the priests could likely administer so long as they were in the right place. And so it goes on about keeping themselves from from being exposed to the dead. And in verse 27, in the day that he goes into the sanctuary,
09:30 -  to the inner court, to minister in the sanctuary, he shall offer his sin offerings, say to the Lord God, it shall be unto them for an inheritance. I am their inheritance and you shall give them no possession of Israel. I am their possession. So they're free from ambition, from acquisition,
09:44 -  from properties. They shall eat of the offerings. And so if there's a remarkable correspondence to the prescriptions given at the first, shall it be carried into the millennial and the eternal future.
10:04 -  Okay, I think this is all preparation. If coming, ministering unto me in the holiest place of all is the nub of the matter, not the external priesthood that hacks up the sacrifice or takes care of the buildings or addresses the needs of the people. And our present-day
10:29 -  Christianity is people-oriented. The needs of the people. How many of the greatest churches of success today have begun by canvassing neighborhoods door to door to find out what are your needs? Are your needs being met? What can we do for you? You need a bowling alley?
10:48 -  Well, we'll have one in the basement of the church. You need counseling for this or for that. Your children, your needs are the whole foundation of the church. And they're enormously successful, but they're not communicating, nor can they. They think that's essential.
11:07 -  So that's for the outer court. Our concern is the inner court, the holiest place of all. And how can we come into it frequently, if not abide in that place, so that what we offer to men is beyond what they need as they perceive it, but the need as God perceives it, which is
11:29 -  at heart the communication of himself as God. We can only get the sense of that in this holy place, in this holiest place. But how shall we have access? If formally it was only open to the high priest once in a year. And that's where the book of Hebrews gives us answer. And that we're
11:48 -  now going to consider. And now our faith is going to be tested. It's one thing to read what we're going to read and consider, but the issue is, have we a faith to believe it for ourselves? That he has opened a new and living way by his blood, that the veil is rent, and that we are
12:09 -  even bitten to come and to enter, because he's made a way once and for all. That includes John and Alex and all of you precious saints. The all is all-inclusive. That we can come into the holiest place of all, and there he will make with us. And that we can live out from that place. It
12:34 -  doesn't matter if you're in Timbuktu, or Singapore, or Oshkosh, Africa, wherever you are, the essential place of your identity and your being is that place. Because the veil has been rent, and a high priest has gone in before us to make a new and living way that by which we can
12:57 -  also enter and abide. And so the question is, and on a few occasions the Lord has given me a liberty to speak on this, have we a faith to believe for that? That is to say, to actually enter. Because the whole generation perished in the wilderness, they could not enter for their
13:18 -  unbelief. And God bids us enter, that is to say, appropriate, come into this place. The veil was rent from the top to the bottom that kept out the people and only allowed the high priest to come in, but once in a year, and now that veil is rent. But are we accessing the availability
13:42 -  for Zadokite priestliness that God has made for us through his blood? Let's look at Hebrews chapter 6, just before we come to the end of that chapter. Verse 18, well maybe let's go back a little further.
14:04 -  Without obtaining the promise, in verse 13, made to Abraham, when the Lord swore by himself, saying, I will surely bless you and multiply you, and thus Abraham, having patiently endured, obtained the promise. Human beings, of course,
14:21 -  swear by someone greater than themselves and have both given his confirmation, puts an end to all dispute. In the same way, when God desires to show even more clearly to the heirs of the promise, the unchangeable character, this purpose is guaranteed by an oath. So that through two
14:36 -  unchangeable things, in which it is impossible that God would prove false, we who have taken refuge might be strongly encouraged to seize the hope set before us. We have this hope, a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters the inner sanctuary behind the curtain, where Jesus,
15:02 -  a forerunner on our behalf, has entered, having become a high priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek. A remarkable mouthful that our hope, especially in an age of tumult and upset, and oppression, persecution, last days clash and collision between the powers of darkness,
15:26 -  is that anchor is set within the holy place. It's in the sanctuary of God. It will never be touched, it will never be affected by any outward tumult or disturbance. It's the basis for our peace, our security, our instruction, our confidence. It's a hope set as an anchor steadfast within the veil.
15:49 -  Behind the tent, behind the veil, because Jesus has penetrated that by the cutting of the veil of his own flesh at the cross. I think we're falling short. We've appropriated the blood for sin, but we've not appropriated the fullness of what was wrought by the death of Jesus.
16:11 -  That when he gave up his ghost and said, it is finished, in that moment, the veil was wrecked in the temple. This nine inch thick covering that kept out the curious and the unqualified from the place of God's holy presence. So as suggesting that something had to
16:31 -  do with his death and opened up a new way of access into God, into his very presence, which is the requirement of priesthood. And if we've not understood that, then we've not entered, we've fallen short. Because he abides a priest, because he's without ancestry and
16:54 -  beginning and ending of days. And as in the form of the son of God, he abides a priest forever. And so we who are identified and in Christ are invited and share in his Melchizedek priesthood to the degree that we are sons. And so he's more than the provision of blood for sin.
17:14 -  It's by his sacrifice, the veil is rent. And there's an opening now by which we ourselves can enter the whole place as priest in him. And in fact, if we don't, what have we and what are we offering and what are we communicating when we come out and go before men? So this is a
17:35 -  remarkable provision that has been established by the same sacrifice by which the blood has been shed for our sin. But it has also opened a new and living way into the holiest place of all, forbidden in times past to anyone other than the high priest, but open to the sons of God
17:56 -  who are joining him in the Melchizedek priesthood, because they are without beginning and end, without ancestry, and are in the form of sons. Look at that in chapter seven, where this Melchizedek priesthood is described. King of righteousness, king of peace.
18:21 -  Melek is king. Zedek, Zadek, king of righteousness, the same word. That is without father in verse three of chapter seven, without mother, without genealogy, without neither beginning of days nor end of life, but resembling or in the form of the son of God, he remains a priest forever.
18:45 -  This is our privilege in him. This is how we obtain a priestly status even though we're not descended from Aaron. We obtain a Melchizedek identification to the degree that we are in him and to the degree that we are without father and mother, ancestry or beginning or end of days.
19:04 -  What do you mean, Arthur? I clearly have a father and mother, but where's your attachment? Where's your identification? Have you broken free from those things that would keep you in the earth because we read elsewhere, I think in chapter eight, that if he was in the earth, he would not
19:22 -  be a priest at all. He's in a transcendent place and we are offered a union with him in that place of transcendence, which is beyond nationality, beyond Hutter-rightness and German-ness and American-ness and any other kind of thing that would keep us rooted and identified with earthly
19:45 -  things, with culture, with man, with institutions. Priests must be transcendent and above. They are heavenly. Paul said, I have my citizenship in heaven. Does that mean that in the earth he was irrelevant and had nothing to know? He was enormously relevant, significant, all the more
20:08 -  because he was heavenly minded, because he had the actuality of his true identity, not as a Jew, he said. I was the Hebrew of the Hebrews. I was at no point lacking behind in anything. In the Pharisees, no one was more zealous for the Lord than I, but I count all that as done.
20:28 -  I've died to that and my true identity now is not my ethnic racial origin, but my identification in Christ. And so long as I'm in Christ, I'm in his priesthood also. I'm separated from those earthly entanglements that would keep me down. And I'm in a heavenly place having access even
20:51 -  to the presence of the Father, by which I have obtained counsel and wisdom to function that when I'm sent out from Antioch without a program, without a outline, just the life that is in me and the precious and renewing of the presence of God from the holy place affects how I will speak
21:15 -  at Mars Hill. He never expected to speak. He didn't send letters in advance to say, Hey, you guys, I think I'll be coming through. Can you arrange for me a Saturday night meeting with the philosophers? I want to speak especially to those who are influential in Greek civilization,
21:31 -  because this is the first time that anything like this will ever come to them. I need to have an audience and set it up. He was brought not by himself, but by circumstance. He was fleeing persecution. They brought him to Athens. And while he was there and he woke, he saw that the city was
21:48 -  wholly given to idolatry. It says he grieved. The spirit was grieved as he saw the city wholly given to idolatry. Therefore, disputing in the synagogue with the Jews and in the marketplace with old persons, they heard this babbler speaking about resurrection and they brought him up to
22:08 -  Mars Hill to hear what this babbler would say. I can't say enough for the door of utterance that had been opened by the prayers of saints for Paul, caught up by circumstances in an unanticipated place. But what a place, Greece, the civilization, the glory that was Greece. Have you ever been to
22:27 -  Athens? Have you ever been to Mars Hill, as I have many times, and seen the stone where Paul is supposed to have preached? It's worn smooth by the feet of pilgrims. You can slip and slide on it, and you look up and you see the ruins of these temples. And you have to catch your breath,
22:44 -  because even the ruins are so suggestive of the glory that was once Greece, that you're on it. Greece was the place of the advent of tragedy, plagues. Shakespeare later drew upon the classic Greek dramas, philosophy, ethics, mathematics, physics, all of the great pursuits
23:03 -  of civilization. Know thyself. Humanism itself had its birth in Greece and in Athens, and this is the class of men that Paul is now going to face. And what will he say? Unaccustomed as I am to public speaking, I thank you for the privilege that has come to me today. I don't want to offend
23:22 -  against your traditions. I understand, but I need to tell you nothing. I perceive on my way here, passing your monuments to God, that in all things, you're too superstitious, and your monument to the unknown God is really a cop-out. The truth of the matter is, you guys don't even really want to know
23:43 -  God. You prefer to have him as unknown. So therefore, you can continue in your home sexuality, because Plato had a little playboy. The mode of life in Greece was you had your sexual toys, and kids, young men, young boys, were used as playthings sexually by the men of the most
24:03 -  elegant and educated current part of the culture. Who wants to know God? A God who will say, that's a no-no. It's convenient not to know God, who in any way would impinge and infringe upon your enjoyment. And Paul blew the whistle. Whom you worship in ignorance, I declare unto you.
24:28 -  Boy, talk about Chlitzpah, because once he declares it, they're finished. They can never again claim ignorance. To hear from an apostle about the God who is God is to leave you without excuse before that God on the day of judgment. And then he went on to speak that God has winked
24:45 -  in times past, but he now commands all men everywhere to repent. And he's not impressed with temples made by the hands of men, for the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof, for he's the creator of heaven and earth, including Greece and Athens. You need to
25:00 -  acknowledge the God who has created this piece of turf upon which you are standing, and that you think it's yours as a playground or a sport to do your thing. God has winked in the past with that kind of presumption, but now he calls all men to repentance, for he has appointed a day in which
25:17 -  he will judge all men the world by that one whom he's raised from the dead, even Jesus Christ. Come on, Paul. These guys know nothing about resurrection. They've never heard the name of Jesus. This is an outlandish message. It's not at all appointed to the intellect of men that they
25:35 -  could as philosophers identify and begin to consider. You're in fact violating everything that men hold dear intellectually. Your word is a colossal offense to rationality itself. Couldn't you think of something better? He opened his mouth. It's just like Jesus of a certain amount.
25:55 -  He gathered up his disciples, and he opened his mouth, and he taught them, blessed are the meek, blessed are the pure heart. The same God that gave Jesus the words of that great oracle, the Sermon on the Mount, gave Paul his message on Mars. And it could have killed him.
26:14 -  They could have been so antagonized by this threat and insult coming from a Hebrew, a babbler, that he could have died on the spot. In fact, one of those who claved to him and believed did die on the spot. And the Mount of Martyrs, that is today in Paris, somebody knows this in French,
26:35 -  the Mount of Martyrs, where they have now art exhibits, that the disciple of Paul, who came to him on the Mount of Mars Hill and was saved subsequently, was sent by the same God into a pagan Europe and died on another mount, the Mount of Martyrs, proclaiming the same kind
26:59 -  of message to the pagans there, but he was not allowed to come down. He died at it. So, Paul's message that day was altogether priestly. It defies analysis. By critique and examination, you would think it was the worst thing that could
27:25 -  be spoken. And in fact, the scholars say that Paul missed it in Athens. No great church was raised up by Paul, as in Philippi and in other places. He really missed it because he became philosophical, because he said, God has made of one blood all races of men and established the
27:43 -  bounds of their habitation that they might seek after God, if happily they might be found with him. He misused his opportunity. He should have given them the gospel, step one, step two, step three, how to be saved. Well, as he talked about the earth and the bounds and habitations of men
27:58 -  for the purpose of seeking after God, because that's the message that God gave him out of the holy place. I'll meet with you between the cherubim and above the mercy seat, and there I will give you instruction for the sons of Israel, or instruction for whatever the
28:18 -  exigency and the need will be. And therefore, you can go from Singapore to Indonesia to Malaysia to India, and you don't have to think in advance what was appropriate. How will you know what's appropriate? But it's a once and for all that will not be given again. Paul never came back
28:36 -  to that place. It's a one-time visit and a one-time speaking for which men in the hearing would be eternally responsible. Who is sufficient for these things? Where did Paul get that word? Where did he get any of the words that he spoke? That he spoke in Philippi or in any place or in
28:55 -  counsel that he gave in his epistles. The same place, the holy place, the holiest place of all, by which he had access. He's the author, by all reckoning, of the book of Hebrews. I know it's contested, and the Bible scholars say that it doesn't seem to be Paul's authorship, because
29:14 -  Paul doesn't talk like this. In his other epistles, he doesn't talk like this. This either a disciple of Paul or somebody else. But what the dum-dums don't recognize is that Paul can speak in any manner of ways. That what was appropriate in the book of Romans is not what is called for here.
29:33 -  But the same inspiration that came for the book of Romans, from the holy place, came for the book of Hebrews. In the same place, in the same source, it's where God is enthroned, the holiest place of all. There I will meet with you, and there I will give you instruction
29:47 -  for the sons of men. Believer style of this? You don't have to scrape and scratch and think what you can say and what will be appropriate. You can act like that if your only intention is to get by. You don't want to lose face. You want to maintain your reputation. Yes, then you can
30:10 -  function out of your humanity and your cleverness. What if life and death is at stake and eternity, and once and for all speakings that will not be given again, it can never issue out of your cleverness. It can't even issue out of your past. Even out of the past that God himself has given
30:25 -  you is not justification for you to pick up a past message that was blessed and given and think it appropriate here. Got the idea? This is a new moment. This is a once and for all, and only priest administration will suffice. But where are we to obtain it? We're not sons of Aaron. We're
30:45 -  goyim. We're Gentiles ourselves, and we come with a history of nationhood and ethnic racial backgrounds. We're loaded with baggage that colors everything that we think and say and do, except that you've come to a place like Paul, where you've counted it as dung and you have
31:02 -  no ancestry. You have no genealogy. You have no father and mother. You're without beginning or ending of days. You weren't born in 1929. You're an unbroken piece of continuum that had its origin in the earliest expression of God and his house was shifted in the earth. You're
31:21 -  an unbroken piece of continuum. You can't tell where you begin or where you end. That's high priestliness in the essence. So my distinction is not that my name indicates Aaronic origin or the vertical origin. My distinction is to the degree that it pleases the Lord and that I'm a son
31:44 -  resembling the son of God by his grace over the course of years, that I'm also in his priestly ministration. I'm with him and the veil has been rent and I'm bitten to enter into the holiest place of all and there to find whatever is needful out from God's own presence in that place.
32:04 -  Amen. How'd you like not just to enter once and once in a while but to abide there continually even while you're at Ben Israel or in Singapore or Brooklyn or wherever you are, though you're in those places physically, that's not where your essential being is. Your essential being is
32:25 -  continually in the holiest place of all and out from that place the Lord will express in his own wisdom and will what is appropriate at Ben Israel, at Brooklyn, at any place. That's the heart of the matter because this kind of priesthood is not a putting on and a taking off.
32:46 -  This is not professionalism. This is not nine from five or I'll be on at seven. And that's beginning today without knowing what is to take place. Having only the faintest presentment that this was God's topic. Not even assured. You heard me pray. Lord, if I'm mistaken
33:04 -  and I'm just assuming something that touched my fancy and is not, you will dismiss it. But if it is this subject, who can speak it? Who has the right? Who has the ability? But yourself as the high priest, out of your own life, from the holy place, communicate this mystery in such a way as
33:24 -  in hearing those words, our faith is kindled to believe that we're bidden ourselves to enter. But what me, Lord, I'm just a blonde boy from Pennsylvania. I don't have an arts background. I'm not Jewish. I'm gentile. High priest, son of God, no kiss the deck. I'm bidding you
33:51 -  not to enter as an affront to the great privilege that I have bestowed before you in rending the veil that has kept you out previously. I've made for you by my blood and by my death and in a living way and I'm bidding you come. Not only come but abide.
34:08 -  First 15 of chapter 7 speaks about the power of an indestructible life. It's even more obvious when another priest arises resembling Melchizedek, one who has become a priest not through a legal requirement concerning physical descent,
34:26 -  but through the power of an indestructible life. For it is attested of him, you are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek. There's a foreverness. There's an eternality. There's an unbrokenness
34:43 -  because it's the power of the indestructible life. It's the power of the life of God that's infinite, endless, and it's out of that life that this priesthood is performed. You're a priest forever not just at the high moments but in ordinary conversation or speaking
35:03 -  the truth and love to someone in the fellowships or just throwing your armor on the neck of a brother or encouragement or praying for somebody or just in conversation. You're a priest forever. This is not a put on and a take off. That's exhausting, Lord. Not if you're serving and
35:20 -  functioning out of the indestructible life. In fact, if you're not in the indestructible life, you're not in the priesthood. It's intrinsic. It's one and the same. Have you the faith to enter. Faith is an act and if you have been rightly formed till now and have been growing from
35:40 -  faith to faith, you can believe this and in fact enter and live out from this place as your faith is obedient. What a pity to be an outer court minister and just attend to the needs of men and hack things and clean up and take care of the furniture. That's okay, but to minister unto me
36:06 -  and to minister unto him is the truest ministry unto me. He has something to bring. The very nature of God, the essence of what he is in himself. That's perfect. Verse 26, where it was fitting that we should have such a high priest,
36:25 -  holy blameless, undefiled, separate from sinners, exalted above the heavens. He has no need to offer sacrifices day after day. This he did once and for when he offered himself. By the word of oath which came later from them, the law appoints a son who has been made perfect
36:46 -  forever. Now this is the main point in chapter eight of what we are saying. We have such a high priest, one who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens. And at the end of that verse, for if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all.
37:08 -  So there's a separation from earthliness, the power of the earth. And chapter nine continues in description of that greater priestliness affected by Jesus, not by the blood of goats and calves, but with his own blood, thus obtaining
37:29 -  eternal redemption. In verse 12 of chapter nine and in chapter 10, verse 19, dear friends, since you have confidence to enter the sanctuary, the holy place, the holiest of all by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain, through the veil,
37:50 -  that is through his flesh. And since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us approach with a true heart and full assurance of faith, with our consciences sprinkled, cleaned from, our hearts sprinkled, cleaned from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure
38:08 -  water. Let us hold fast to the confession of our hope without wavering for he who has promised to save us. Let's hold fast. That anchor is set within the veil, in the holiest place. Let us approach with a true heart, full confidence, full assurance, for he has opened for us
38:29 -  through the veil of his own flesh, a new and living way. So we have confidence to enter, and if we have confidence to enter, we have confidence to remain. It's not a flitting thing on today off tomorrow. The same faith and confidence by which we enter
38:49 -  is the faith and confidence by which we abide. We abide a priest forever. It's not an on and off thing for which we then sag, because it's in the power of the indestructible life. It's a whole new dimension. It exceeds Aaronic priesthood,
39:08 -  where men died or finished when their tenure ended with age. This abides forever. It's beyond father and mother, beyond ancestry. It's abiding with the son as a son. It's the high coating of God in Christ Jesus.
39:31 -  We need to hold fast that confession of our hope. So Lord, faith to believe this is faith to enter. Faith to enter is faith to abide. Faith to abide is to have answer at any moment of time of crisis or extremity that will come before
39:52 -  us in these last days. We don't have to search for words or to find an answer to the crisis or predicament in which we find ourselves. Your life is indestructible. Your life has its own wisdom, and you've given us an example both through Jesus, the high priest, and through Paul,
40:13 -  whose apostolic ministry was priesthood from the beginning, and for which we are in debtors, Lord, for the great epistles that have come to us in the example of his life. Thank you, Lord, that that woman in Philippi who harassed him and cried out with that demonic crazed cracked voice,
40:33 -  these are the servants of the most high God who shall unto us with salvation. This did she many days, but he being grieved at a certain moment of time turned and commanded that spirit to come out, and it came out that very hour, which then set in motion being dragged into the
40:52 -  marketplace, being stripped, being beaten, being thrown into the dungeon, and forming the church out of a former prison keeper and the prisoners who were there. At a moment that the life of God indicated, not his convenience. Hey, this lady's bugging me. It's about time she flakes off.
41:09 -  I'm going to exercise my apostolic authority and get rid of this. He being grieved for her condition, he seeing that she was a slave and a source of revenue to her masters who made much gain through her clairvoyance. At a moment of God's bidding out of the holy place, he turned, and the authority
41:31 -  that was his commanded that spirit to come out.