The Holocaust as Judgment  1

00:00 -  No man is fit to open the issues of the Holocaust. It's too holy, too sacred, too monumental, too unthinkable and too unspeakable. And yet the paradox is that if we forestall or withhold an examination,
00:18 -  we seriously devastate ourselves and almost assure the reoccurrence or the enactment of the next. So it's a terrible tension. It's too holy to touch and yet the indifference and the ignorance of it will make us victim of the next judgments need to be examined.
00:38 -  However painful and the great and classic prototype that eventuated in the call of Moses and his apostolic sending, if I can say that, was his willingness to turn aside to see. A bush that burned and was not consumed.
00:59 -  And I'm taking the liberty to say that that represents and is symbolic of the judgments of God that are not yet requited, not yet answered, not yet met, not yet understood. Still pending. God is yet wanting something.
01:16 -  And you can't sweep these things under the carpet. They surface. However long they are deferred, there'll be an eventual day of reckoning. And the final day of reckoning is irremediable.
01:30 -  The day of the Lord and the day of the judgment of God. And after that, there's no court of appeal. There's a finality that is absolutely chilling.
01:40 -  And you know what the amazing thing is? That not only is the world totally indifferent to that fate, to that possibility, but the church itself is asleep with regard to it.
01:52 -  We have lost probably one of the most divinely intended things that would have brought an iron into the soul of the church and a seriousness into the quality of the church
02:06 -  and an intensity to its faith and to its mission. Namely, the issue of judgment and the last judgment. If you miss contemporary judgments, you're not going to have an understanding of the last.
02:22 -  Judgments are continuous and related. But you can understand why it is that even the church itself shrinks from the contemplation of judgment. It's painful.
02:37 -  And yet God is a judge. And judgment is one of his attributes, as is also love, patience, mercy, kindness, righteousness. In fact, God would not be righteous were it not for his judgments.
02:52 -  And when his judgments are in the earth, as the scripture says, the world will learn righteousness. So you cannot exempt judgment from God or you dissolve God as God.
03:04 -  You have a God of another kind, of your own making, who's a patsy. And you can call him Jesus till you're blue in the face. But there'll not be any answer from heaven.
03:13 -  It's simply not God as God if you remove this component from his being. So mercy does not mean anything independent of judgment. And God is a seamless garment, like the robe of Jesus that could not be parted.
03:30 -  It had only to be gambled for. You cannot divide the Lord. He's indivisible. And his judgment is an integral, contiguous aspect of his total being.
03:42 -  And the church that loves him and serves him needs to submit to the totality of God as God. And it's not taking Castor Well because God's judgments are not punitive. It's not a God exercising his power as if to pull wings from flies.
04:01 -  It's a God whose judgments are always proportionate to the sins of those who are being judged. It's never, what's the word, arbitrary. It's always in perfect, divine accord with what is being judged.
04:19 -  And if he had refrained from exercising his judgments, you can imagine what the condition of the world would be in his creation. It's abysmal.
04:32 -  And we can see what's happening in our court system. It's loathe to judge. They cannot bring themselves to bring judgment. And probably the primary reason is that those who judge are themselves taking liberties
04:46 -  and living immorally and wanting to force full judgment for themselves and therefore cannot bring it against others. And so the whole fabric of society suffers for the want of righteous judgment.
05:01 -  So let's pray that the Lord will give us a sober, miyan, M-I-E-N, I've not used that word in a hundred years, disposition to consider a subject that has real life-changing possibilities.
05:19 -  Lord, we thank you, precious God. We thank you when we ask your forgiveness at the same time, because we have shared in the shallowness of the Church.
05:29 -  We've not had a stomach for this, and even for the consideration of judgments as it pertains to ourselves. We have always read the things that befall us in another way.
05:40 -  We have attributed it, like the world, to accident, to men, to circumstance. We rarely understand or choose to see it as the hand of God. So Lord, we ask an adjustment of our seeing and our thinking,
05:56 -  because it befalls us, as your last days prophetic people, to speak the Word of God in judgment, and to warn men of judgment before the very end comes.
06:10 -  And may you have, my God, a yielded prophetic people who will not balk. So we bless you, Lord, and we just ask you to take over, communicate what you will, and give us an understanding in a life-changing way, as only you can by your Spirit.
06:29 -  And we just thank you for the privilege of it, for the assembly of souls, my God, whom you've brought from near and from far, some as complete surprises, but not a surprise to you. Bless us all together, Lord, and put something memorable into our spirit,
06:47 -  our understanding, our consciousness that will affect our walk, our conduct, our service. And we thank you and give you the praise, in Jesus' name. Amen. What one thing would you single out, all of the things that could be considered,
07:06 -  that is absolutely pivotal, central, has affected, will continue to affect mankind and every aspect and consequence, the single greatest and yet most denigrated or most essentially ignored event in time is the crucifixion of Jesus.
07:31 -  I don't care what facility a man can have in speaking, no one can ever aptly describe and give attention to the centrality of that single uttermost event, the intervention of God in the affairs of men, in time and in place, himself, in his own person,
07:57 -  and how it was expressed in a peculiar form of ultimate suffering and death that blows the mind and blows every religious category totally away, that as one German theologian that we had discussed said,
08:14 -  true faith begins where the atheist thinks it should end. It's at the devastation of Jesus that authentic faith has its only beginning and true beginning because there's something about the nature of the ultimacy of that event in its devastation
08:33 -  that is calculated to destroy religious categories. Man has a penchant, P-E-N-C-H-A-N-T, a disposition to be religious. And whatever the motive for that, it ironically robs events of their deepest meaning
08:53 -  and domesticates them so that they can be fitted in to the mentality and framework of men for their convenience. And in it they think they're doing God's service. So we need always and frequently to come back to the central place of beginning
09:14 -  and see it afresh and more deeply. And it may well be that it's the mercy of God that he has not revealed it in one fell swoop to any of us or our frames could not bear it.
09:27 -  But how many of us would ever think that what Jesus on the cross represents is the judgment of God? Do you ever think in those terms? That if you want to know what judgment is, the death of Jesus on the cross is the statement of God's judgment.
09:48 -  We never really think in those terms, but all sin was subsumed and placed upon him. He was the sin bearer. He suffered the judgment for the sin of Israel and of all mankind, past, present, future.
10:05 -  So there's no way to describe the suffering beyond the atrocity, the physical aspects of things that this was probably for him being holy and righteous. Which of you can convict me of sin at the heart of the deepest suffering of the cross?
10:28 -  And yet mankind has a talent to domesticate that and to rob it of its power. And the Jewish people in the nation Israel have relegated the event itself to a virtual oblivion. There's a remarkable way in which something can be dismissed historically
10:53 -  and we push it from our consciousness or we minimize it or see it as some kind of secondary thing. That he was a political threat to the Roman Empire or whatever it was or he invited it by his own rash statements and just as well to be done with this presumer.
11:17 -  So I want to take some time tonight to talk about the consequence of the rejection of judgment as judgment. The failure to see it and to understand it invites its own judgment. And that's why World Jewry this evening is yet under the threat of a future judgment
11:42 -  because its understanding of past judgments have not been recognized. The two great judgments of modern times was the crucifixion of Jesus and the Holocaust of the Jew. And there's a connecting logic between these two events.
12:00 -  And I don't know that I could myself describe it but I know that I know that the two are extraordinarily linked. You cannot disassociate them. The one made possible and even required the other. And they're statements of the same kind, both judgments on the son and sons of Israel so to speak.
12:23 -  I think last time we talked about the predicament that Judaism faced with the destruction of the temple in 70 AD which Jesus prophesied that not one stone would be left on another. So here was yet another opportunity to recognize the qualifications of the crucified one
12:44 -  by the accuracy of his prophecy now being born out 40 years after his stating it. 40 being the number of trial and testing. They had 40 years to consider the event of his death and his resurrection.
12:59 -  And in the failure in that time to surrender to the truth of it and to the apostolic testimony of that truth both in the preaching of the apostolic church and the apostles themselves but in the quality of that church. Remember, great grace was upon them all and with power gave the apostles testimony to the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
13:27 -  So that generation of Jews not only had the testimony of Jesus now fading from memory but the continuation of that testimony in the apostolic church with great power. And after the refusal and the persecution of those who sought to bring that testimony
13:45 -  the judgment of God fell in one of the greatest devastations of Jerusalem since 586 BC where I think over a million were slaughtered. The blood was reputed to be as high as the bridle on the horses.
14:03 -  And it's really the most pathetic thing to read about that final day of judgment in Jerusalem where Jews thinking that the temple would not be destroyed climbed up on the roof of it and burned to death when the whole thing was set afire
14:25 -  because of some kind of simplistic presumption that God would not allow his own temple and his own holy city to be destroyed. How could they presume that if God allowed the destruction of his own son? This almost invites a dum da dum dum.
14:52 -  Had they understood who it was who was crucified and that the father did not withhold his own son in suffering the devastation of judgment I don't think they would have been so hasty to believe that a temple or a city would be spared when God's judgment comes.
15:11 -  Are we finished with this issue? In the presumption of men about what they think God will do and will not do? Not at all.
15:21 -  I'm giving you a rehearsal of something called the inviolability of Zion. A presumption that is historic that we've missed again and again that somehow God will not do. And the most recent expression of it is well God is not going to bring Jews all the way from Russia
15:44 -  by the hundreds of thousands and from Ethiopia and then allow a devastation in which they will suffer death or dispersal. Will he? Great question.
16:00 -  We would not be quick to say that he won't if we understood what he has allowed in the past and what may be yet necessary in the future. So the temple is destroyed and the priesthood is dispersed which had been the central pivot of Jewish biblical faith.
16:23 -  What now? What sacrifice can be made without a Levitical priesthood and the place where God ordained that it should be performed? What do you do not only with the temple destroyed but with the veil of the temple over the holy place
16:38 -  that had been rent from top to bottom when Jesus gave up the ghost and had been sewed up for 40 years as we said last time that Jews who came in to that visible thing had to see the terrible mock of men sewing together a curtain and thinking to continue with normative Judaism
17:02 -  with the statement of God's disdain and rejection of it in the thing that is sewed up. What is it about man? The depths of our, I don't know, what's the word, the depths of our?
17:14 -  Deception. Deception. Depravity.
17:18 -  Depravity. There's something so ingrained in an unwillingness to recognize truth and bow before it. And what does that do?
17:27 -  It creates the conditions for yet another and more severe and inevitable judgment. So there was a conference, I don't know in what year, maybe some decades after the catastrophe of 70 A.D. at a town called Yavne in which the Pharisaical leaders of Judaism established present-day rabbinical Judaism.
17:59 -  The temple is no longer now the locus and the central object of Jewish attention and worship. That's the synagogue. And because it's not to be fixed in one place in Jerusalem which is now destroyed
18:13 -  and God's people dispersed throughout the Roman Empire, synagogues can be found in any locality where Jews are. So what do you do for blood offering and sacrifice?
18:23 -  You perform mitzvot and good deeds, fasting and prayer. This is the rabbinical alternative. Think of the presumption that somehow God will sanction and endorse this innovation.
18:38 -  Though it says in Leviticus 17, without the shedding of blood there is no remission for sin. God's inviolable word which he has exalted above his name. So this is a little thumbnail scratch of the predicament of Judaism to this very day.
19:01 -  And who are the most vehement opponents of men like myself and to any evangelical expression of the faith to the yet unbelieving Jewish community? But these quote defenders of the faith, which is not at all the faith of God
19:19 -  but the innovation of men in the absence of any possibility of fulfilling God's biblical requirements. Well I want even to develop the tragedy of that yet more. What did the dispersal of Jews into the Gentile world mean?
19:37 -  Why in the history of Jews was Passover and Easter season the most dreaded time in the annual calendar in Christendom? Why did they lock themselves behind doors?
19:53 -  Why was there always the greatest bloodbath? Why if there was the black plague or the bubonic plague were Jews always blamed? Who somehow never suffered the plagues themselves?
20:06 -  You know why? Because they kept kosher. Because they were more fastidious about religious cleanliness and external kinds of things that probably saved them from the ravages of disease that came through Gentile neglect and ignorance.
20:23 -  But can you imagine how suspect a body they would be as a minority in Gentile nominal Christian communities as somehow not experiencing the plagues that have befallen the Christians
20:37 -  and still stubbornly rejecting Christ? Can you understand that there's a way that even if you're polite which Jews are not always In fact, Luther's great fear in the Reformation was that Jews would undo
20:55 -  the truth of the Reformation and contradict it by their unwillingness to recognize in the Reformed faith the biblical and messianic hope. And he had a three-day debate with a number of rabbis
21:13 -  and he who had been formally sympathetic to Jews before that time and once said that if I were a Jew I would no sooner be a Christian than a dog. Seeing how lousy the testimony of Christ has been to Jews completely changed his attitude
21:29 -  when he had this debate with Jews and found that in order to avoid the evident Christological meaning of the prophetic scriptures that the rabbis were required to blaspheme God. I don't know that I can demonstrate that. Well, I think maybe I can.
21:50 -  If you deny the biblical testimony in the New Testament of the divine birth of Jesus the angelic coming to Mary, the virgin birth, what then is the clear and evident alternative to that understanding? And even in the Talmud there were thinly concealed references to the illegitimate birth of Jesus
22:24 -  through a relationship between a Jewish woman and a Roman soldier and he was given a certain name but every Talmudist recognized to whom the illusion was intended. So Luther who was a Hebrew scholar and the Enlightenment, the Reformation brought a renaissance
22:49 -  and the interest in Hebrew and the original languages could also read Talmudic references and concede the blasphemous implications of the continuing Jewish denial of Jesus. In a word, Jewish presence in nominal Gentile Christian communities invited disaster.
23:14 -  Christ killer. Blasphemy in the implication of Jesus' illegitimate birth. The continuing refusal to receive the witness of those who believed put Jews in an unsavory place of predicament. Can you see that? And what I'm saying is that that is not at all accidental.
23:40 -  That itself is the continuing outworking of the initial rejection which is affirmed and confirmed by every subsequent generation of the sins of their fathers so long as they themselves continue in a silent affirmation of that rejection. Can you follow that?
24:03 -  So the sins of the fathers are indeed visited upon the sons until there's a conscious breaking of that continuity by rejecting the decision of the fathers in choosing Barabbas over Jesus. The implication of that rejection continued to affect Jewish communities and does to this day.
24:25 -  I'm writing here. Even now the logic of our American Jewish position disposes us to oppose public Christmas creches. Is that what you call it? The nativity scene. Who's behind the American Civil Liberties Union legal opposition to public displays of the nativity scene?
24:49 -  Principally, Jews. They do not want to see America Christianized because it would put them as a minority religion in an untenable position. And so that's why prayer has come out of the schools. That's why even a picture of Jesus in a public building
25:08 -  or even the Ten Commandments or any allusion to God the Faith, let alone Christ, is abhorrent and threatening to Jews. It's the logic of their libertarian humanistic view that sees themselves as a threatened island in a Gentile Christian state. But what is the consequence for them in continually exacerbating
25:33 -  and irritating even a nominally Christian country? Will there one day be a backlash, as is now being prepared in the former Soviet Union because the leaders of the Bolshevik Revolution were Jews. All of them atheists and all of them believing with Karl Marx that religion was the opiate of the masses
25:56 -  and dead against religion and Russian national orthodoxy. And so now that 80 years later the revolution has become undone, the Soviet Union is dissipated and there's now a rising up again of something that had been suppressed and even persecuted,
26:16 -  native nationalistic Russian orthodox religion. And now you're beginning to hear from some of the exponents that it was the Jews and the Bolshevik Jews and the atheistic Jews who put such a hiatus on our religious life for 80 years that has left devastating consequences that they are the enemies of the faith.
26:37 -  And so I'm expecting, and I don't think it's an exaggerated fear, a backlash against Jews for the opposition to religion and because religion in Russia more than the United States is a national religion. And that's what we're seeing in the crisis in Yugoslavia, national religions, Serbian, Croatian, Islamic,
27:04 -  fighting a religious war which is also a national thing because they don't separate church state as we do. It's one thing. Jews were also internationalists. The international working class, I used to sing this as a former Marxist radical, is part of the idealism of Jews for the unification
27:30 -  and the unity of the human race. Brotherhood brought about through secular means of an international working class that shared the Marxist ideology. That means an attack against any kind of nationalism that would keep people from recognizing their distinctive identity as a nation.
27:52 -  You see what I mean? And what's happening now, in fact, but a movement toward a one world kind of a thing and a breaking down of national distinction. Probably to scratch deeply enough, we'll find Jews foremost in their same endeavor. Why? Because there is a messianic kind of impulse that has never found expression
28:16 -  in legitimate biblical messianic faith but finds a perverse expression in secular things of a political and social kind which I'm saying will invite the backlash of nominal, gentile religionists who will see Jews as a threat both to their national and religious distinctions.
28:38 -  So Jews have become a kind of antibody, an indigestible presence in the gentile nominal Christian world. And I'm not saying that to say that there's an ongoing consequence to the rejection of Jesus that that single enormous event cannot brook rejection. You have either to fall at the cross
29:08 -  and to acknowledge God in it or suffer a consequence of so costly a rejection of the truth because the event of the crucifixion of Jesus was truth in the uttermost. It was God. It was the statement of God about the condition of man, about the intrinsic sin of man, the depravity of man,
29:34 -  of how horrid a thing sin is in the sight of God by what was required to expiate it, namely the devastation or the holocaust of Jesus. It was a one fell swoop statement of God about man and about God in the deepest meanings that to reject that is to reject reality and to bring such a warp
29:58 -  not only with regard to God but with regard to everything and which warp will catch you up in only a matter of time. I don't know what the statistics are of the incidents of Jewish mental and emotional breakdowns. I would suspect that we run a much higher percentage than mankind at large. It would have to be that.
30:26 -  We're out of tune with reality, a mindset opposed to God because it's opposed to Christ and so that has got to have consequences. We are matriarchal in our society rather than patriarchal. Our men are cuckolded. I know that in my own life I had suffered the problem of anger for years
30:48 -  and something even certain bitterness toward women that had to be dealt with by God over a period of time and finally it was explained to me it's a response to the centrality of my mother in my own home in the absence of a father but even that absence had a lot to do with her own failure to be a submitted wife
31:12 -  in the way that would have been her experience and ability had she been a woman in the faith. We have lost the sense of the fatherhood of God. There's no way to have it except through the relationship of the son. The son is the key to the father and will reveal to father to whomsoever he will.
31:33 -  There's an ongoing judgment once an initial judgment is not understood and rejected and it reverberates still and it's still incurring its own intrinsic and inevitable judgment and that's why Jesus wept when he looked out over Jerusalem in the last of his ministry.
31:59 -  How does that go about the day of my visitation? Luke 19. Turn to Luke 19. Let's look at that. To know the pathos of Christ who knew what that rejection would imply for all of the generations that followed
32:25 -  and is still yet before us. Luke 19 from verse 42, verse 41, knew it now as he drew near, he saw the city and wept over it.
32:42 -  Jerusalem is also symptomatic or symptomatic of the whole of the nation. To see Jerusalem is to see the whole of Israel and the whole of world Jewry. So he's not just weeping over a piece of landscape, he's weeping over a nation saying
33:00 -  if you had known even you, especially in this your day, the things that make for your peace, but now they are hidden from your eyes, for days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment around you, surround you, or close you in on every side and level you
33:20 -  and your children within you to the ground and they will not leave in you one stone upon another because you did not know the time of your visitation. You think that that's a statement that's appropriate only for Jews?
33:39 -  Is there a day of visitation that's appropriate for anyone? Is there a moment of truth that can come and that can be missed and set in motion such consequence for that one who refuses to see it?
33:55 -  Probably the most tempering thing that would make the church the church and bring it to a disposition of humility is the example of Israel before it having missed the day of its visitation.
34:09 -  We would be less prone to miss ours, whatever that day would be. For each of us, if we understood the consequence that came from their failure, what do you make of that statement when Jesus is weeping over this
34:24 -  and level you and your children within you? It's not just you who's going to suffer this, but your children also, both in 70 AD, which is what he's referring to, but I think he saw past that and through that.
34:39 -  He saw the Jewish kids that were killed through all of the Middle Ages. He saw the million and a half children that were destroyed in the Holocaust, thrown up in the air and speared on bayonets or plucked from their mother's arms
34:54 -  when they came out half crazed from the cattle cars after three days in congestion and heat without water and thrown immediately into troughs of burning gasoline. He saw that.
35:07 -  You missed the day of your visitation, and you're setting up something for yourself that will be a day of reckoning that will reverberate throughout all your generations, and it's not yet over since.
35:18 -  There's a day of Jacob's trouble, yet future, which according to the testimony of Jesus, eclipses everything that we have now already mentioned. But how do you explain and how can you explain that children are the necessary victims
35:35 -  of the judgments of God? Are they guilty? Could they have known? Why must they suffer?
35:43 -  Because of the rejection and the indifference of their parents. Your children, he says, within you. One day we're going to have to give answers to questions like that.
35:57 -  In fact, that question is invariably asked in any discussion with Jews about the Holocaust and where was God? Why did the Jews have to suffer?
36:09 -  I mean, why did the children have to suffer? Okay, the adults, that's one thing. And in fact, as we discussed once before, of all Jews who have suffered,
36:19 -  the irony is the great preponderance of them were Polish Orthodox Jews. Even the Hasidic Jews, which were almost devastated in central Europe. Why didn't God, if it was a judgment, bring it on American and Western secular Jews
36:35 -  who were clearly atheistic or agnostic? Why on that segment of Jewry, that was the most religious? Can you answer that?
36:45 -  See, this is what we have to grapple with, saints, and we've not done it. And that's why we can't give answers. And this is why God waited to see if Moses would turn and look into the burning bush.
36:58 -  And the moment that he saw that Moses turned to see, God called to him out of the burning bush by name and said, take off your shoes for this ground upon which you stand is holy ground.
37:14 -  If Moses had passed on by, and every human impulse would have justified, passing by a strange phenomenon that must have sent off a kind of an eerie radiance, a sense of something like human wisdom would have said,
37:32 -  however strange a thing, you're wise to pass it by. But not only did he stop, he turned aside to see. And when God saw that he turned aside, he called him Moses, Moses.
37:50 -  So here's what I want to say. Moses is the classic deliverer of Israel. Nothing less than a man sent out of the presence of God as a mandate and a call
38:06 -  would suffice to deliver Israel out of Egypt and into a land flowing with milk and honey. It took an apostolic sending, but it took a call, but it waited on a response of a very particular kind, a turning aside to see.
38:25 -  Why the bush burned and was not consumed? It was more than just casual curiosity. It's a man who wants to know the deepest answers to inexplicable things,
38:40 -  sensing that in them is the revelation of God to be found in a way that is not to be revealed anywhere else. Can you follow that?
38:51 -  And that's my premise, that there's a revelation of God that waits only in that place, in the place of judgment that is not to be seen anywhere else. You know why we're so shallow and so frilly and there's such a lightness in the church
39:08 -  and why we're so given over and so susceptible to fads and every kind of thing that comes down the pike? It's because we do not know God, as we put. Because the deepest revelation of God is in the midst of the burning bush of unrequited judgments
39:27 -  and we have not the stomach and have not turned aside to see, to ask the ultimate questions of why. Because in that would have been a revelation of God that would have justified both our sending and our call.
39:45 -  God is not going to send someone to confront Pharaoh, who goes half-baked and goes with only a charismatic knowledge of God. He'd get blown out of Pharaoh's court in the very first encounter.
39:59 -  The knowledge of God is all. And what did we say was the revelation of God in the Holocaust of Jesus that reveals God as he in fact is more so than any single event
40:27 -  that had preceded it or has subsequently come, that to refuse that testimony of God in Jesus on the cross is to refuse the testimony and the revelation of God as God.
40:40 -  In what form? It's mercy. Well, it's true.
40:47 -  His mercy and his judgment are expressed in sending his own son to bear the sins. Let me put the question another way. With what view of God are Jews today necessarily saddled
41:07 -  because of the rejection of the revelation of God that came at the cross, in which they boast and yet leaves them with an inadequate and distorted, which is to say untrue, knowledge of God?
41:27 -  Monotheism. Isn't remarkable how tenacious or fierce Jews are as if they are the defenders of the monotheistic view of God
41:38 -  when the monotheistic view of God is itself an error. And because they promulgated that error in the rejection of the triune God at the cross, how is the cross the revelation of God in the totality of all his persons?
41:58 -  It's the son crying out to the father, giving his life in sacrifice without spot by the eternal spirit. You have all three aspects of the Godhead.
42:12 -  I know it's a sublime mystery. I know that I don't know what I'm talking about. But I know this, that God is jealous over the revelation of himself in his triunity.
42:24 -  And that not to understand him in his composite makeup is not to understand him. And that in fact the Church of Jesus Christ today is suffering for the want of the knowledge of God in his triune genius.
42:40 -  You say, how come? Because even though we technically subscribe to the doctrine, we don't in fact believe it.
42:47 -  And we don't cleave to it as if it's an important distinction. The irony is we are living monotheistically. And one of the ways in which it's reflected came to me as revelation in Texas
43:05 -  where they were talking about church leadership. And there was a certain segment in the church that wanted a single pastor and others that were vying for a plurality of elders.
43:19 -  And in the message that I gave, I said to the ones that wanted a single pastor model, I said, you're quite monotheistic in your view, aren't you? I never before saw that.
43:31 -  In other words, they were projecting from their notion of God onto their notion of the Church. And that the idea of a plurality of elders is a reflection of the plurality
43:43 -  that is to be found in the Godhead. And operating in what kind of mode? What is the genius of God that is expressed by Jesus in John 17
43:55 -  that they might be one as we are one, that the world might know that the Father has sent me? The whole issue of the success of the Church's evangelistic mission
44:08 -  rests on the revelation of God as he is in his corporateness. How can we succeed in that if we ourselves are monotheistic in our own mindset and individualistic in our own mode of living and behavior?
44:31 -  God, as Ern Baxter said, is a sweet company, and so sweet that the Son defers to the Father, and the Father defers to the Son and has given him all things.
44:47 -  Jesus, knowing that he had come from the Father and was going to the Father, and that the Father had given him all things, rose after supper and took off his garments
44:56 -  and girded himself with a towel and washed his feet, he would not have been able to do it if he did not know that he had come from the Father and was going to the Father
45:06 -  and the Father had given him all things. There's a remarkable liberation that frees you for humility when you know that you know that you know that the Father has given you all things.
45:20 -  Who did not know that and was unable to receive a profligate brother who came back to the Father? But the eldest son, remember?
45:30 -  You never did this for me. You never slew the fatted calf for me. You never gave me a robe. You never gave me a ring.
45:38 -  And the Father said, But don't you know that everything I have had is yours? He didn't know it.
45:46 -  So the view of God as the Father and the relationship between the persons of the Godhead is key for us. I'm only just, I'm just touching something lightly.
46:01 -  I can't say enough. And I wait for the opportunity and the leisure to read men who have spent their theological lives pondering the depth of the mystery
46:11 -  of the triune Godhead and know that they know that they know. It's central to the faith. And we ourselves have had a recent encounter
46:20 -  with monotheistic triune God rejecting people. And what a clash, not only about the Godhead, but about everything. The view of everything had a certain warmth, a certain distortion.
46:34 -  We could not see eye to eye. Dear though they were, this one thing was crippling in their view of everything.
46:44 -  So I'm saying that in the rejection of the cross, Jews condemn themselves to an inadequate view of God, which they tenaciously hold
46:57 -  and in which they think they're doing God's service. And to hold an incorrect view of God is to lose God. If you don't know God in spirit and truth, you don't know God.
47:13 -  You can call him what you will. You can call him the God of Israel or you can call him Jesus. If it's not God as he in fact is, you may find in the day of calamity
47:25 -  that your call, like those who waited for an answer from the false prophets of Baal, doesn't reply. They leaped, they danced, they cut themselves.
47:38 -  There was no answer. There was silence. But the fact that they leaped and cut themselves indicates that they believed that they knew God.
47:48 -  But the day of reckoning came when the falseness of their presumption was revealed. That may well explain why Jews were disillusioned
48:02 -  about God in the Holocaust. They called, but there was no answer. But they were calling on a God of their own projection
48:11 -  and not the God who in fact is God. You see how critical it is to invite a judgment of the loss of the knowledge of God
48:20 -  by rejecting the most profound revelation that he himself has chosen to give at the cross. It sets in motion reverberating judgments
48:31 -  that are ongoing still. Not the least of which is to have spawned and to have encouraged another sect that is deviant,
48:44 -  that is monotheistic, which today again threatens the entire Christian and Jewish world, which is called Islam.
48:54 -  A monotheistic sect that likely would not have had any ground to have a foothold if Jewry had surrendered to the revelation of God in his triune form.
49:09 -  That their continuing holding of the monotheistic view gave encouragement to and spawned that which has come back to haunt them and be the greatest threat
49:19 -  to the national existence today. That's why Jesus wept if you had known the day of your visitation.
49:34 -  I feel like I'm doing too much talking. How is the Holocaust memorialized by Jews today? In the absence of the recognition of the Holocaust
49:51 -  as judgment, how is the Holocaust understood and how is that understanding communicated to others today?
50:01 -  What an invitation to a disaster to say never again, implying that the Holocaust, because it is not the judgment of God, was the work of men
50:12 -  in our defenselessness as ghetto Jews, but now as one of the great military powers of the world in disproportion to our numbers
50:22 -  and a nuclear entity that we can make the most never again. I talk about tempting God.
50:33 -  Can you understand the consequence of not understanding the judgment of God as revealed in the catastrophes of men?
50:52 -  Is that a problem for any of us? Like what you call divorce a catastrophe or ill health or the failure of an entire fellowship
51:04 -  or community, accident, loss of employment, our bodies going haywire. Do we think as a first thought to ask to what degree
51:16 -  is the calamity itself a judgment? Do we have a mentality that seeks for its first explanation of catastrophe or devastation coming
51:29 -  as the judgment of God? Intended, for what purpose is judgment intended that God would give it to us as catastrophe?
51:40 -  Because what had failed? The appeal of God, the word of God, the missions of God, the faith expressed when men will have turned
51:50 -  the dust ear to the word of God consistently until they've come to a place where the word cannot have currency, then God has to employ event.
52:03 -  And the event is judgment. Lesser judgments to forestall greater judgments. It's Vassalia Schlink who has coined the word
52:13 -  preliminary judgments. Can you understand that there's a way in which even the Holocaust itself, taking 6 million Jewish lives
52:24 -  and 1.5 million children in the ovens of Nazism is a preliminary judgment? A penultimate judgment, meaning something that is
52:37 -  the next to last thing. If the Holocaust is next to last, what is the last thing for which that is preliminary?
52:46 -  Judgment day itself and eternal judgments without remedy and without alteration. The finality and the ultimate and the eternal closure event,
53:01 -  the eternal judgment. Isn't it interesting that however true you were about the day of Jacob's trouble, it itself has yet
53:10 -  a penultimate judgment. One last shot from God to save Jews from what? The thing for which Paul said, I would wish myself a curse
53:20 -  that my brethren might know Christ. Why could he cry out like that? A man who knew the salvation of God more profoundly
53:31 -  than any man in his generation was yet willing to forsake it and suffer the curse of God if his brethren, according to the flesh, could know Christ because he knew
53:44 -  the terrible, exceeding consequence of the judgment of God. That's why God sent him to Mars Hill, that he can say to Greek philosophers that God has appointed a day in
53:59 -  which he will judge all men by that man whom he has raised from the dead. And when they heard that, some turned away with scoffing
54:11 -  and rejection, others said we'll hear again of this matter and like they never did, but a few clave unto him and believed, who had no background in scripture.
54:22 -  But when the solemnity of eternal judgment was pronounced with apostolic authority, men feared and clave unto Paul and believed that there would be a day of judgment that
54:39 -  has to be feared with awesome fear or every day that precedes it will be lived on a basis less and other than God's intention and that the single greatest malady of
54:56 -  present-day Christianity is the absence of the awesome fear of God of which every one of us in this circle have been victim.
55:06 -  The shallowness of the church, its casual air, its charismatic history, every kind of slipshot thing can be attributed to a lack of the awesome fear of God that is
55:20 -  intrinsically joined with the issue of his eternal judgment. Where are the Pauls of our generation?
55:30 -  Even for the church, let alone world Jewry, where is the Paul that goes to the Mars Hill of present-day Christianity and will say with such conviction God has
55:43 -  appointed a day in which he will judge all men? There's no fear of that. And the Simpson trial is the most pukey revelation of the
55:58 -  absence of that fear. I don't know how to express that. I know that it is.
56:04 -  The carnival, the circus event of a mockery of justice because a man has millions to employ the shrewdest Jewish lawyers.
56:17 -  It kills me. And by the way, don't think there will not be a backlash. When the Gentile world will remember that a man by the
56:28 -  name of Shapiro for the peyola was willing to plead for a man who is so patently guilty that it is as clear as the nose on anyone's face.
56:41 -  And that men like him, also Jews who own the Warner Times Corporation and who are circulating all of the rap rock music, the most filthy, degenerate culture that has ever
56:55 -  afflicted America. The lyrics are unbelievably degenerate. It invites murder.
57:01 -  It invites rape. It calls women bitches. It invites their devastation.
57:06 -  And when Senator Dole or any figure makes any reference to this corporation as the single most degenerative factor in American present culture, the second one is Disney Studios
57:21 -  headed by Katzenberg, another Jew. Whoever is listening to this tape, please understand I'm not fomenting anti-Semitism.
57:31 -  We're actually pleading for the life of a people, trying to tell them you're dumb dumb. So you're lining your pockets, but do you know what you're
57:38 -  doing for your people? You're inviting a disaster, a consequence. You should be standing for righteousness.
57:45 -  You're supposed to be a nation of priests and a light unto the world. Instead, you're the greatest fomenters of culture that is so
57:52 -  anti-Christ, so anti-God, so anti-even elementary morality, and you justify it on the basis of civil rights, civil defense, freedom of speech.
58:03 -  What has that got to do with speech? It's the most filthy outpouring of an invitation to degeneracy. It has nothing to do with speech and the conveyance of ideas
58:15 -  and any political and righteous sense, but they invoke anything because there are untold billions involved in this whole cultural slime, and my people, God bless them, are foremost in the
58:30 -  propagation of that culture. By the way, don't think that Hitler did not play upon this. Who do you think introduced Marlene Dietrich to the film world,
58:41 -  but Jewish producers and directors? They were in the forefront then, they are in the forefront now of Western culture, of a degenerative kind, and when there's a national
58:53 -  backlash, when men see, as they're seeing increasingly, their nation going down the tube, who will be blamed, and with what justification will that blame come?
59:05 -  All because we know not God and God's Christ. The issue of God is Jesus. But in order to repent, how does Paul say it?
59:20 -  Repentance toward God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. To present Jesus as an answer before Jews have asked the question is to waste your breath and to more deeply turn them away from the issue.
59:35 -  Repentance toward God must precede faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is an anomaly. It is a calculated offense to human understanding, sensibility,
59:48 -  and intellectual consideration. God has seen to that.