The Cross and the Eunuch 2 of 2

00:00 -  Would you go to it with the sense that you were not to come back from it, that it was the end of the line, that your life was finished when you entered those waters, and that there be no resurrection to animate you and to raise you to newness of life, having gone down with
00:17 -  Him, that's the end of everything. Had you come to a decision, and would you come to it even tonight, that you were willing to mark a conclusion to your life, and I'm not just talking about your worst defects,
00:31 -  I'm not talking about your fleshly problems, though that would be taken care of in it. I'm talking even about your virtues. I'm talking about your natural endowments, about your talents, your desires, all the
00:42 -  kinds of things in which you hope to serve God, which are part of the natural life for which God has no use. Are you willing to commit the whole thing to a death and a burial, for nothing that
00:54 -  goes under can be saved? Maybe that's an explanation of why it is that I react so severely against sprinklings as somehow only being a token gesture of the total thing that God is after, as a total
01:10 -  God calling to men totally, to whom few have responded in a total way. I want to suggest, unless you have understood that that's what your baptism meant, and you have entered it with that desire, you are likely yet now still very much alive unto
01:28 -  yourself, albeit your religious, self-conscious, sensitive, well-meaning, and all of these things. In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision not made with hands.
01:44 -  You know how that's described in Isaiah 53? That's not the circumcision that Jesus received when he was eight days old as a Jewish infant, that circumcision was made with hands.
01:55 -  This circumcision is described in Isaiah 53 as when he was cut off and out of the land of the living. Why one would almost say that Jesus himself was in that act made a eunuch for God's sake.
02:14 -  The axe was laid to the root. He was cut off and out of the land of the living. He was left stone-cold dead.
02:26 -  He was a cadaver hanging on the cross. He was gangrenous in the sickly hue of his flesh. There was no prospect whatsoever that anything that had gone on before, by which he might
02:42 -  have acted out anything in his own natural life, could thereafter be continued. He was dead, dead, dead. His death was total, and so also was his resurrection.
02:57 -  And without presuming upon God, I wonder if we can even suggest that we have a measure of the reality of the resurrection life in exact proportion as we have the measure of that death.
03:10 -  Not just in a once and for all, but an instance after instance as we're willing to stand and to serve and to be accountable before God as dead men trusting His life for everything. I'm doing that tonight.
03:25 -  I'm going for broke tonight. I've almost done everything in my power not to trust in myself, not to come with an outline, not to seek in any way, to carry myself through it, to make it entertaining or any such thing,
03:39 -  but merely to stand up and to trust God that out of the death of my inability, His own life will communicate His own truth. Some of you may have heard the account of the days of ministry at the University of
03:54 -  Illinois at Urbana that took place some years ago at the height of all of that radical ferment during the Vietnamese War, when somehow men invited me to come for eight days of gospel meetings in that university.
04:10 -  I had never before had any experience of that kind. When I came to my utter embarrassment, I found that they had put up strips, adhesive strips all over the school that they had had printed that says, cats is coming, without even a
04:25 -  space between cats and is and is coming. One word, cats is coming. When I saw that, I cringed.
04:32 -  I said, what are you guys trying to do? I'm nothing. They said, we know that.
04:40 -  But somehow when we prayed, the Lord somehow impressed us that people will not come to some kind of abstract gospel presentation, but they're interested in personalities, and so we have been making you known.
04:51 -  There's already a controversy being circulated about you even before you're appearing. Well, I remember how those days of meetings began. It was in the Student Union building.
05:05 -  We came to a football huddle with the Saints who invited me for a last moment of prayer at the noon time session where about 300 students assemble every day to hear some radical speaker or another speak inflammatory things to invoke them to revolution.
05:22 -  And that's where the first of these eight days of meetings were to begin. So it was a wonderful, comforting thing to be with the Saints and the brothers in this precious huddle when we prayed, and I could feel the heft of their arms and hands on my
05:32 -  back, and that's the art. Go get them, tiger. And then, as such things must, the prayer ended, and the little band of souls broke,
05:45 -  and I was left standing all alone by the mic to begin. I don't remember what I said. I spoke for about 20 minutes.
05:55 -  It was a gospel presentation. It was sheer foolishness, but it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that will believe.
06:05 -  It's only God's choice, guys. We have nothing to do with this. That it pleases him to use pieces of earth, clods of earth, through whom to speak.
06:16 -  You explain it. And so I gave that 20 minute talk, and then I opened for questions and answers. And I'll tell you that there was such an atmosphere.
06:26 -  It was bristling with antagonism. It was electric. There were radicals that were so utterly opposed and sickened to a gospel outreach.
06:33 -  They were ready to flay the flesh from our bones. And as we began that night, as I was standing by that microphone looking straight out, I saw a guy standing right at the back wall.
06:43 -  He had a smirk on his face from ear to ear. I thought, oh, that guy's going to be trouble. And he was.
06:50 -  As soon as I asked for questions, his was the first hand to go up. But you should have seen the man at which he went up. Mr. Katz, such a wise, allocate face and spirit.
07:02 -  Let me ask you one question, he said, snorting up his sleeve and elbowing his friends as if to say, I'll take care of this guy right at the beginning. And this won't even get off the ground.
07:12 -  This will be ended before it begins. Let me ask you this question, he said. Do you believe in hell?
07:22 -  Well, I didn't have a neat little memo pad alphabetically listed with answers for embarrassing questions. I was yet rather young in the Lord and I don't know that I'd ever really contemplated the question of hell. Of course, I believe in the sense that every believer believes all that's in the Holy Writ.
07:39 -  But I don't think that I could have given a dissertation on hell. But I was being required to. I was called beyond my ability, beyond my expertise, beyond my knowledge.
07:52 -  You know what I want to say to you, dear children? The end times for which our life has been fitted and is being fitted is exactly that call. Nothing more and nothing less than this.
08:06 -  We're called beyond our ability, beyond our expertise, beyond our strength, beyond our religious determination, beyond our own courage, beyond our capacity to love. We're called beyond.
08:22 -  I'm speaking this thing to encourage you that there's a Christ who has broken the fetters of death, who is alive, who is available, and whom is all the treasure of wisdom and knowledge if you have come to the cross with your own.
08:40 -  And so having nothing more to do than this, I opened my mouth to answer. Just to remind you that faith is always an act and not just a condescending to things that are scripturally true.
08:55 -  I opened my mouth and I heard these words come out, something like this. Well, I said, dear brother, even as an atheist, I have always cherished words
09:06 -  and I've had an instinctive and intuitive recognition of their value. I want you to know that there's one in the scripture who has a like appreciation for the meaning of words, who himself said that we shall be held accountable
09:21 -  for every idle word we speak. He himself never spoke one. And yet there's not a character in all the scripture
09:29 -  who has himself spoken more prolifically about hell than he. He it is who has given us the phrases, wailing and gnashing of teeth, being cast out and out of darkness,
09:42 -  lake of fire, a fire that shall not be quenched. And I tell you who has raised this question to embarrass and to humiliate the servant of God, to take heed of the answer lest you find yourself
09:58 -  more soon than you think standing before him whose name you presently despise, to find that it's too late to remedy your condition. And now you're required to suffer the agonies that were described to you
10:09 -  as a result of your facetious question, something like that. The only difference between my trying now to remember it and to express it and the statement when it came forth at the first was
10:25 -  it came forth as a burst out of the very life of God. It was a rush of God, it was a furnace door breaking open. And it came with such a felt heat that the reverberation, the power of it
10:41 -  as well as the weight of it struck an entire wise-aleckly audience seeking to do in God's messenger. I watched the sky just defuse, I watched the air go out of me,
10:55 -  just shriveled up and blew away. And we went off like a rocket from the launching pad and those eight days were beyond any describing.
11:06 -  They took me from dormitory to residence hall, from faculty meetings to student lounges. I was in a daze, I was like just an automaton.
11:15 -  I was just picked up and lifted and taken and carried and driven and walked to find myself yet before another audience, yet before another audience, yet before another.
11:23 -  I didn't have all that many messages. I don't have them now. And yet when I stood in the place of life or death
11:33 -  and opened my mouth in faith believing that it is no longer I that live, but Christ who is my life, that I am crucified with Christ, yet nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me.
11:49 -  You know what? He Himself spoke. We watched guys fall on their faces. We watched wise Alex with knotted fists later raising their hands
11:58 -  and praise to God who was saved to the uttermost. We watched a guy stumble into a meeting while he was in progress with a beard and creepy hair and looking about him,
12:06 -  some kind of religious mystic who had been playing around with near Eastern things and God knows what, occultic things, who heard the word and stopped in the middle of his walking through the room
12:17 -  and fell to the ground and was silent and attentive and listened to every syllable that fell from my lips. And when my speaking was over and his wise guys began to sound off,
12:28 -  he stood up with indignation and said, what are you guys doing? Why is it very God is in this room?
12:36 -  How dare you? He said, raise your wise Alekhie questions. When I gave an invitation at the end of that session, he was the first on his face before God saved to the uttermost.
12:49 -  At the end of these days, we were beginning several weeks of ministry with our first stop here in Oxford, but it ends in Europe where the Lord is bringing us
12:57 -  to every one of the European Youth With A Mission centers, not the least of which is the headquarters in Lausanne, where I hope to meet a young man who is in charge of their entire French outreach,
13:08 -  who was saved at the University of Illinois at Urbana at those meetings. Oh, children, it's life and death. You don't know what is being transacted.
13:21 -  Whenever you stand for God and before men, who is sufficient for these things? Or where is the man with great authority
13:32 -  who has been given the charge of all his treasure? That God might speak out of his mouth a word, instant, in season and out,
13:43 -  appropriate day after day, country after country, culture after culture, problem after problem, without time for thought, without time to collect yourself,
13:52 -  without time for rest, you're on. And if you fail, the stakes are enormous. Who is sufficient for these things?
14:04 -  I'll tell you that this is more than well-meaning intention. This is more than perked religiosity or self-conscious discipleship. This is a call for dead men who are raised to life again
14:18 -  by the power of the resurrection of Christ Jesus. Have you been cut off and out of the land of the living? Or you've come to many altar calls and you've laid down your life for Christ,
14:29 -  but you're still contemplating your marriage and who it's going to be and when and where and how and why? You are not, therefore, that dead.
14:38 -  Do you love the cross? Do you love the enormity of the transaction that God has made available to as many as will and as many as believe?
14:49 -  Know you not that as many of you as were baptized into Jesus Christ were buried with Him in His death? That like as you've been buried with Him in His death,
14:55 -  you might be raised also with Him unto newness of life? Why then are our religious meetings so humdrum and so mundane and so monotonous and so predictable?
15:05 -  Where's the newness? Why then are we mechanical clods who can't do better than mechanically recite four spiritual laws?
15:16 -  And if we're stunned with a situation beyond our anticipating, we're lost for words or to know how to respond. Where's the newness?
15:28 -  It's not enough to applaud the doctrine. It's not enough to consent to its validity and to its truth. It's only enough to enter into it in experience
15:38 -  and to live in it and by it. It's a call to those who would be eunuchs for Christ's sake. Paul makes a reference to marriage,
15:51 -  and I hope I'm not being misunderstood, Lord. 1 Corinthians 7, the 29th verse, With this I say, brethren, that time is short.
16:05 -  Do we have crucified ears to hear this? Has your ear been circumcised? I'll tell you, it'll be a different kind of hearing.
16:17 -  The uncircumcised ear, the uncrucified ear, hears as Bible study, hears as interesting, helpful and insightful things about Scripture.
16:27 -  The crucified and the circumcised ear hears with a pang in the heart. With this I say, brethren, that time is short.
16:38 -  Do you believe that? How much shorter now than the 2,000 years ago when Paul wrote it? It remaineth that both they that have wives be as though they had none.
16:50 -  My Lord, what is this, some sleight of hand? How can one be married and have a wife and be as though you had none? It's not a technique.
17:00 -  It's not a manipulation. It's only available to those who have laid the axe to the root, who have no life unto themselves,
17:09 -  who can be joined and parted, who can appreciate and be in relationship with a wife and not have that soulish and carnal and kind of physical attachment
17:18 -  that keeps you from the full use of your life in God. To have and yet not to have is another kind of marriage, another kind of relationship, another kind of living.
17:30 -  It even releases the wife more to be the wife and to be the woman as it releases you to be more truly the man. I'll tell you there's something about the wonder of the cross,
17:43 -  that in its power to bring death, it issues such a quality of life of which few who call themselves Christian know anything.
17:56 -  And they that weep as though they wept not, and they that rejoice as though they rejoiced not, and they that buy as though they possessed not.
18:02 -  How are you doing in that department? I'll tell you merchandise is getting so seductive, it is becoming such a skill and such an expertise,
18:11 -  such a satanic sophistication that they have learned so how to stack merchandise, so how to color the walls and the carpets and the ceilings,
18:19 -  so how to use the appropriate kind of music, that when you walk into a supermarket or a department store or whatever,
18:27 -  the blandishments and the powers and the appeals are so enormous, who can withstand it? What person not coming to buy one thing ends up with five?
18:38 -  What person who does not regard something first as a necessity doesn't soon learn to come to regard it first as a luxury, come to regard it in time as a necessity?
18:48 -  The whole world is given over to the power of merchandise. It's at the very heart of this Babylonian system, yet who has the power to withstand it,
18:58 -  who can handle the goods of this world and not be seduced by it? But somehow it does not mean to them what it means to others, because have you noted even the way in which merchandise is now being described?
19:13 -  I recall reading an advertisement for a shirt that had nothing to say about its appearance or attractiveness or its durability,
19:21 -  which was the way in which shirts were advertised in my generation, but the way it would feel next to your skin. It was described as an experience.
19:31 -  And I'll tell you that when clothing begins to fall into such categories as that, the end of the age is at hand. They that use this world as not abusing it for the fashion of this world
19:45 -  passeth away. I want to see how something of this is expressed in the Amplified. In the 35th verse it says,
19:55 -  Now I say this for your own welfare and profit, not to put a halt of restraint upon you. This isn't some kind of hokey fundamentalism.
20:02 -  This isn't that thing that we were told about would be an end-time sign of men forbidding to marry. But to promote what is seemly in good order
20:12 -  and to secure your undistracted and undivided devotion to the Lord has God secured that from you. And this I speak for your own profit,
20:23 -  not that I may cast a snare upon you, but for that which is comely, that you may attend upon the Lord without distraction.
20:32 -  Gee, I wonder who I'm going to marry. I wonder what she'll look like. I wonder how we'll get along.
20:37 -  I wonder how she'll be and where will I find her and how much we have a courtship. And I wonder this and I wonder that.
20:44 -  Well, stop wondering. If God intends for you to have a wife, He'll give it in His season.
20:52 -  And it'll come down from heaven as a gift for which you and she will be prepared. And there's nothing that will more war against this
21:01 -  than your own self-conscious thought and occupation with when, how, who, what. It's an unhappy symptom that the axe has not been laid to the roots,
21:13 -  that you have not come to the rest in God, which is prepared for those who love Him. Oh, dear children, He would have you to be without distraction.
21:26 -  Not to consider merchandise, not to consider anything, but having food and raiment there to be content, to live as the crucified people that you're called to be,
21:41 -  for whom the cross is not just mere symbol, but powerful actuality. For you live always in the shadow of it,
21:48 -  so that it can be said that for you to live is Christ. I'll tell you, He's not to be seduced by merchandise. He's not to be distracted by blandishments.
21:58 -  He's unswerving and single-eyed and fearsome, tenacious for His God and His Father. And so ought we also to be and only can be
22:08 -  if that Son is our very life. The 37th verse, Nevertheless he that standeth steadfast in his heart,
22:16 -  having no necessity, but hath power over his own will, and hath so decreed in his heart, that he will keep his virginity, doeth well.
22:25 -  The Amplified reads, But whoever is firmly established in his heart, strong in mind and purpose, not being forced by necessity,
22:33 -  but having control over his own will and desire, and has resolved this in his heart to keep his own virginity, he is doing well.
22:41 -  Having no necessity. You know, there's an echo of that in the Book of Hebrews when it speaks about the Melchizedek priesthood.
22:51 -  I think it's in the seventh chapter. It speaks about this priest in the third verse or the second verse, who is a king of righteousness,
23:03 -  a king of peace without record, a father, a mother, or an ancestral line without beginning of days or ending of life, but resembling the Son of God, he continues to be a priest,
23:11 -  a priest without interruption. Isn't that our calling also? To be a royal priesthood and a peculiar nation.
23:21 -  He's a priest without interruption, without ancestry, without beginning or ending of days, without father or mother.
23:27 -  Well, he's another dimension. Somehow the things that pull and tug at us do not affect him. He's in an ethereal and heavenly place.
23:37 -  And somehow I think that the mothers and the fathers will be the better for sons who are such high priests, who are without, in a sense, the distraction of the fleshliness and pull
23:48 -  and tug that comes from living out these relationships on the earthly plane. He's in an eternal place, in a glorious place,
23:59 -  and a place that frees him for the purposes of God. He continues to be a priest without interruption, who has been constituted, it says in the Sixteenth Verse, a priest
24:09 -  not on the basis of bodily legal requirements, not because he's a Levite, but on the basis of the power of an endless and indestructible life.
24:20 -  The power for this priestly ministry, the one who is able to save to the uttermost all who come unto him, who is always living to make petitions and to intercede in our behalf,
24:32 -  can only be on that basis and that power. Ever living to make intercession, when does the guy rest?
24:40 -  When does he flick on the TV set for amusement? When does he take a breath? When does he have a change of pace?
24:47 -  When does he, you know, he ever liveth to make intercession? This is priestliness.
24:54 -  He's a priest without interruption, on the basis of the power of the endless and indestructible life. Have you ever tasted of this?
25:06 -  Have you ever come to such a place of enfeeblement and weakness? You can't so much as raise your head or lift your voice. Have you ever felt your brain to be so numb, so exhausted, so out of it?
25:20 -  You just don't know how to proceed. And the only pity is that you're finding yourself at Harvard University and you're standing before a room that is jammed full
25:34 -  with students who have come to make sport of you, who are full of dears and disdain and contempt and look upon you as some kind of a Jewish freak
25:43 -  and think that they're in for a night of novelty and merriment. A school that was founded to train pre-ministers to promulgate the Gospel becomes in modern times the citadel of occultism and witchcraft,
26:00 -  of orgies, of sin, of addiction, of drugs, of every kind of filthy and abusive thing, of rebellion and violence that has marred the earth. And you're standing before them in terrible enfeeblement and weakness.
26:15 -  It's your time of fast. You're wiped out and exhausted from weeks of travel and ministry. You take off your crumpled corduroy jacket and throw it down
26:25 -  and you sigh and gasp and suck for air and see their smirky faces and feel that at last you've come to the place that you have long expected, your end.
26:36 -  And you say to these students, I had hoped to prepare something clever for you, knowing your reputation,
26:42 -  but my condition is such tonight that there are only one of two alternatives, either a terrible human fiasco or the revelation of the glory of God. How would you like to live always between these two radical alternatives
27:01 -  with nothing neutral in between? Human fiasco, human failure, terrible abject, pitiful nothing or the glory of God? We are dead and our life is hid with Christ in God
27:17 -  and when His life is revealed, our life shall be revealed also with Him. Well, praise the Lord, it sure came forth at the University of Illinois at the most crucial moment.
27:29 -  His life had an answer for hell that my cleverness did not. And so you open your mouth before these Harvard students, expecting hardly more than a croak and a groan and to your utter amazement,
27:42 -  whoosh, out comes the rush of God, the most powerful and profound dissertation on the human condition you yourself have ever heard.
27:53 -  Flawless, flawless, the power of it, the magnitude of that statement, there wasn't a loophole. No intellectual could have found a way to have penetrated it.
28:03 -  It was airtight. It was a statement of God on the human condition that was unanswerable. It was the first time in college speaking that I had never seen a student
28:14 -  after I had made a statement to get up and to challenge it and make a wise alecky quip or remark. They were stupefied and stunned.
28:21 -  They had heard from very God. I myself didn't know what to do in the stunned silence. I said something like, the scripture says that my sheep will hear my voice
28:35 -  and I want to ask as many who have heard that voice through my Brooklyn accent to bow your heads now and to follow me and come as children into the kingdom by reciting this prayer for your salvation.
28:46 -  And I bowed my head and I prayed a sinner's prayer. You could have heard the proverbial pin drop. Not one wise alecky quip anywhere.
28:57 -  And I thought to hear maybe one or two or three voices, but instead I heard a chorus of voices. I don't know how many.
29:04 -  Was it a hundred? Could it be more? And when we finished praying, I looked up and I saw a transformation
29:13 -  that what had begun as an audience of hostility had turned to an audience of meekness of the very quality of the spirit of the lamb himself. The anger and the vexation and the bitterness was out.
29:26 -  And I saw the looks of salvation in these faces. Some holding their hands over their mouths like, what happened? Some holding their hands on their chest with no feeling.
29:36 -  Some giggling with the mirth that comes with the advent of the birth of the spirit and the life that did not expect it. Some weeping and broken and shattered by the reality of a God that came into an unsuspecting
29:49 -  and atheistic antagonistic life. I said to them, let's praise the God who has saved us. And the same guys who came to give me this were giving God this.
30:00 -  And the whole house was full of his glory. I want to encourage you about the cross. I want to tell you that what begins in death, eventuates in resurrection.
30:17 -  That if you will be joined and in union with him in death and burial, you shall also be raised with him unto newness of life. And as often as you shall believe this, and as often as you shall live by this, and as
30:31 -  often as you shall speak by it, his life shall be revealed in the form that it pleases him, although it may not always please you. I don't know how pleased I am tonight with what I'm hearing or how I'm hearing it.
30:49 -  I don't know how pleased I was in Monroe, Louisiana when they had rented the enormous civic auditorium when only 200 people came out in this great cavernous emptiness. When God had me to read a message in a monosyllabic way without even the ability to raise my hands
31:05 -  or to make a gesture or in any way to inflame or to make attractive the pure word of God as he spoke a message on the cross in a monotone, they haven't had me back since. For we are dead and our life is hid with Christ and God and when his life is revealed, our
31:27 -  life shall be revealed with him also unto glory. It's not just the words, it's even the manner of the speaking and the form of the personality. Are you willing to be so dead that you are powerless to affect anything in yourself but
31:43 -  what he shall be pleased in his time to perform? Are you willing to suffer the looks of disappointed people? Are you willing for people to sneer at you and look at you as if you are lonesome because
31:59 -  you failed in their sight that night? And I'm not talking about atheists, I'm talking about Christians. Are you willing to be dead and hid until his life be revealed and not launch out in your
32:12 -  own life because you're too impatient to wait on his or you think that you can do it better or you can get by in the moment on the basis of your own ability or expertise? Will you stay in that death?
32:26 -  Will you reckon yourself as indeed in that deed, in that moment, dead unto yourself but alive unto God and Christ Jesus? Dear children, this isn't some adjunct to the Gospel or some new variation, it is the
32:39 -  Gospel. And before we talk about end times and lofty things to be considered, let's come to the true foundation of the faith in fact.
32:53 -  There are some eunuchs that are born eunuchs, poor biological freaks. I guess they'll never have an opportunity to enjoy the delights that are given to all men by virtue of their humanity.
33:06 -  And some eunuchs are made eunuchs of men, held down by burly characters and scrapped down while the axe is laid to the root of their life that thereafter, though they didn't ask it, they could be entrusted with responsibility and not usurp.
33:21 -  But Jesus said there are some eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the Kingdom of Heaven's sake. Let him who can receive it, receive it.
33:32 -  Has the axe been laid to the root of your life? Not just phraseologically, considering the cross, but in actuality, having come to the place of the full resignation of your life and death, you cannot take it back.
33:48 -  You can't say, well, I've come to this altar, but I've reserved for myself the right to marry or to be a mother. Dead people have no such rights.
33:57 -  A eunuch has no such contemplation, but only what the life of the risen one shall afford him. Nothing less.
34:09 -  I don't think that God's glory shall ever be revealed in the earth except through the bans of a resurrected people who have come to the knowledge of the cross in truth. Are you crucified?
34:23 -  Was your baptism a getting wet or was it a burial? If you were to perform it tonight for the first time, what would it yet be if we had a tank of water here and I would invite you out of your seats to come and to join him
34:37 -  and to be in Christ in the only manner it means by which you can, by full identification with him in death and in burial, with the knowledge that you're not to come out of that water alive.
34:48 -  It's the end of your life, your hopes, your aspirations, your dreams, your career, your ministry, your whatever. How many would come?
34:57 -  No wonder it takes desperate men to respond to the gospel. No wonder that repentance is more than just mere sorrowful feelings, but an utter resignation unto death as recognizing our own life, naturally speaking, is worthless.
35:16 -  That the flesh profiteth nothing, no matter how attractive, no matter how informed, how instructed, how gifted. But there's a difference between singing and playing when it comes as the emanation
35:27 -  of his life, when it comes out of your well-meaning and well-intending religiosity. And so is it also true of your teaching, preaching, and everything else by which you mean to serve God.
35:39 -  What would a resurrected husband be like? What would a resurrected father or mother be like? What would a fellowship of resurrected saints be like who live by his life and are moved
35:52 -  only by it? What would the church be like that has no life unto itself but what he would provide in the animation of the fulfillment of his own divine will?
36:02 -  How many of our own programs would be down the tube? Our activities, our alternatives to boredom. God took one Jew who counted all things as dung that he might win Christ and who entered
36:18 -  into such a measure of the reality of this resurrection that the world is still quivering and shaking 2,000 years later from the glory of what God expended through that life. It could happen to any one of us here if we're willing to be as dead to ourselves as Paul
36:36 -  was to his own Judaism. God is looking for eunuchs, men who will have the charge of all of his treasure, who are of great authority in the kingdom.
36:51 -  It's more than just self-conscious wanting to be Christian, doing the right thing. It's a ruthless laying of the axe of the cross to the root by which you are effectually dead that you might say for me to live is Christ.
37:13 -  If this doesn't work, dear people, I'm ready to close up the book, toss it over my shoulder and I don't know what to do to return to desperation, to futility and to dying. We have not demonstrated this resurrection glory.
37:31 -  It says of that first apostolic church, those that believed were together and great grace was upon them all and with power gave they testimony to the resurrection of Jesus Christ. May God have again at the end of the age a church living and serving in that glory as
37:53 -  he had at the first. May we despise and be contemptuous of anything less. May we be willing to lay on the altar of Jesus Christ our best discipleship that is still
38:06 -  being acted out of our own life. May we be willing to be tongue-tied and emptied and lack personality and winsomeness that his life might have an opportunity to be expressed.
38:21 -  May we again and again embrace the cross of mortification and embarrassment and disappointment and suffering and shame. That is death.
38:30 -  That there might be also opportunity for his life to be made manifest. There's room at the cross for you. We used to sing it in the old Assemblies of God days, but I don't hear it often anymore.
38:44 -  As a matter of fact, I have to confess, I don't hear speaking about the cross often anymore. And maybe that itself is a symptom of the age that wallows in the prosperity message and measures its spirituality by its affluence, that the theme of suffering and denial and
39:06 -  death somehow does not speak to us, has lost its validity and its power, but needs to be raised up again by those who will. So how shall we end tonight?
39:21 -  Shall I give you an invitation that is more than just a religious device? How many of you would have faith enough to believe that if you would stand or kneel to it, God would take you at your response and lay the axe to the root?
39:39 -  It might well mean that you'll never marry, but if you're unwilling to face that as the prospect, your kneeling or your responding is false. Listen, guys, we've played around long enough.
39:52 -  Enough of this evangelical device business and manipulation and standing up and raising our hands. There's a very earnest God calling earnestly to earnest men.
40:04 -  I'll tell you, when he'll find one such, he'll pursue him even into the desert. He'll send his choicest servant to open to him the scriptures, because he sees the heart of a man who understands that there's no great authority and no access to the king's
40:21 -  treasure except one also be a eunuch. It's not all this in heaven, too. Shall we test God?
40:34 -  Shall we see if this cross indeed works? Shall we by faith, affirming before God our willingness to be crucified, make that baptism stand for a burial and not a mere getting wet?
40:50 -  And will you after that live out of the reality of that life, trusting it that because you're dead and hit with Christ and God, his life will be revealed? Will you not lapse into yourself again because it's easier, more secure, more sure?
41:09 -  Will you wait for his life? Will you receive it in the form by which he expresses it, or you personally don't like it?
41:16 -  Unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus. Let's bow our heads before this God. I ask precious God that if you were the real author of this speaking, be also now the real
41:39 -  author of this invitation. Let us not sag and collapse now at the most crucial moment, my God, but hold before us a very real cross, the only place of true union with you.
41:57 -  Bid men come. Remind us of Bonhoeffer's comment that when Christ bids men come, he bids them come and die, that the cross is not some wearisome thing that we're to tilt all our lives as
42:13 -  some kind of religious affectation, it's something that we're to carry up to a hill outside the camp and there to be crucified on it. My God, if you can receive us into that death by those who are willing to call an end to
42:30 -  their present life, however impressive, let your spirit make that call. So I just ask you, saints, as a minister of this gospel, if you've never truly come to this cross but have only entertained it, only appreciated it, only agreed with the truth
42:52 -  of it, but never sought as the means for your own extinction. And are jealous for the resurrection life and want it to be amplified and made manifest through you, who have no life unto yourselves, by the coming to this cross, would you come?
43:14 -  I don't know what to ask you to do, to stand with stood so much, maybe to kneel is far more appropriate, maybe just to go down on the floor stretched out on your face as a dead man would be the statement of what your heart is saying.
43:33 -  Will you do something as an act of faith? Let the Lord be the author of that doing, prostration, kneeling, coming forward, standing. May God strike us and strike me if this is just a night, a message, a service, an invitation. Those who are going down and stretching out,
44:02 -  remember it's the end of any contemplation about your future. No prospect of marriage for you other than what God himself shall be pleased to give. You're freed from the distraction, hallelujah, that you might serve him as one raised from
44:21 -  death unto life without distraction. Thank you, my God, for the presence of your spirit which I now actually feel. Thank you for the reality of this moment which is being recorded in heaven. Seal everyone, my God, to your cross who has now bent the knee or
44:42 -  stretched themselves out before you. Sneak us out and find us who are still firmly in our seats saying, well, you know our hearts, we don't need to make such a physical gesture. My God, deal with that elusive self-life that rationalizes and justifies away one more opportunity
45:04 -  to come to the place of union with you in the only way that you have afforded it at the cross. My God, let there be something transacted tonight that shall affect time and eternity. Let there be men and women who are now going down before God who shall be
45:24 -  raised up forever to live before him in a new way, who shall be brought again to the places of weakness and enfeeblement because they covenanted tonight with God to die. Let thy life break forth, my God, in the glory of it. Through these earthen vessels, my God,
45:49 -  receive this sacrifice of these precious lives, Lord, the choicest and the best, the cream of the crop, the finest-looking and appearing young disciples to be found. Receive the sacrifice of the outward thing, my God. Let there be an end to it which was applauded that there
46:11 -  might be a beginning of that thing which is reproached, even your life. Hallelujah, my God. Transact now, Lord, on the basis of the cross. Have for yourself virgins, undefiled, who shall follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth. Thank you.