The Holiness of God 2

00:00 -  The classic paradigm is the relationship of the Father to the Son at the cross. And once we understand and have appropriated that, we have a foundation and a place for the consideration of our own issues. Having this foundation, seeing how the Father related to the Son, for the issue of his own holiness,
00:26 -  the jealousy for his holiness will affect all of our own personal and subsequent considerations. So that's why I'm insistent on coming back to that, if you'll allow me, where the author speaks about that his own holiness amounted his affection to his Son, as we've already discussed.
00:48 -  But more than that, that Jesus himself, as the Son, valued that holiness above his own person, since he submitted himself to the reproaches of men to clear this perfection of the divine nature and make it illustrious in the eyes of the world. Not only did the Father exalt the issue of his holiness over the issue of the Son, the Son himself exalted the issue of holiness over himself.
01:16 -  The Father and the Son were in complete agreement that the cross was not excessive in seeing how important it is that the holiness of God be honored by the sacrifice of the Son. Both Father and Son were in agreement. So great is the issue of holiness that neither one flinched. So he requires mortification, called crucifying, whereby a man would strike as full of deadly a blow at his lust,
01:49 -  as was struck at Christ upon the cross, and make them as certainly die as the Redeemer did. Our own righteousness must be condemned by us impure and imperfect. We must disown everything that is our own as to righteousness in reverence to the holiness of God and the value of the righteousness of Christ.
02:10 -  He will not have been brought only to a relative state of happiness by justification, without a real state of grace by sanctification. There is no admittance into heaven but of a persevering holiness. This is the foundation for all consideration of what is holy, is what the Father and Son acknowledged as needful to requite the issue of the Father's name as holy against the world that has transgressed in sin against him.
02:48 -  And turning out to the end of the chapter, all sin is against the attribute of God's holiness. All sin aims in general at the being of God, but in particular at the holiness of his being. All sin is a violence to this perfection.
03:06 -  There is not an iniquity in the world that directs its venomous sting against the divine purity. An interesting observation. Whether men or the world are conscious of it, all of their vile conduct is, in the last analysis, addressed at countermending and contradicting the holiness of God.
03:27 -  As if that holiness is an ultimate offense, and if they could only assail it and bring it down. All agree together in the enmity against this, which is the peculiar glory of the Deity of God. There is an assault against the holiness of God.
03:49 -  The world despises what would have it removed as a standard. Holiness is the life of God. It endures as long as his life.
04:00 -  He must be eternally averse from sin. He can no longer than he lives in the hatred and loathing of it. If he should but for one instance cease to hate it, he would cease to live.
04:11 -  If God is not holy, he is not God. And his holiness requires to detest what is contrary to himself, which is sin. He cannot look on sin without loathing.
04:25 -  He cannot look on sin, but his heart rises against it. It must needs be most odious to him, as that which is against the glory of his nature, and directly opposite to that which is the lust and varnish of all other perfections.
04:40 -  It is the abominable thing which his soul hates. And on what basis should we hate it? Exactly the same basis.
04:50 -  We do not hate iniquity until we hate it as the antithesis of the holiness of God. He loathes sin. He loathes evil.
05:01 -  He loathes iniquity because it is contrary to and an assault upon his holiness. And we ourselves must detest it for the same reason or else we will be inclined to submit to it and to compromise and condescend to sin.
05:21 -  We need to hate it because it's an affront to the holiness of God. That's the reason he hates it. And the son that was distinguished by his love of righteousness and his hatred of iniquity.
05:36 -  This detestation of sin must be manifested. How should we certainly know his loathing of it if he did not manifest by some act? How ungrateful it is to him.
05:47 -  As his love to righteousness would not appear without rewarding it, so his hatred of iniquity would be as little evidence without punishing it. His justice is the great witness to his purity.
05:58 -  The punishment therefore inflicted on the wicked shall be in some respect as great as the rewards bestowed upon the righteous. The judgments of God that are even now in the earth are the statement of his holiness.
06:12 -  But how many are in rightly interpreting those natural so-called phenomena of floods and tsunamis and earthquakes and other colossal disasters as being the judgment already of a preliminary kind
06:28 -  that issues out of God's love for his own righteousnesses and his own holiness and is already being expressed as warning to the unwary. These are not accidents of nature.
06:41 -  God established the tectonic plates beneath the sea and he knows when to move them. And so we're seeing an increase of devastation and calamities in the world. And they need to be rightly interpreted as in the first instance already as preliminary judgment
07:02 -  to bring mankind to an awareness that the holiness of God is being offended against and must require his justice and that he's waiting for men even now to turn
07:13 -  and to be saved from ultimate judgment in which there's no remedy. And that it's not extravagant now to bring even disasters of this kind. But where's a church that will have the courage to acknowledge that as true
07:27 -  and to communicate that as true to a world that only sees it as a prime magazine newsweek natural phenomenon and not at all the hand of God. We have got to see that in nature and in the devastations,
07:44 -  the judgments of God already in defense of his holiness. But I say as a rule of thumb, a first consideration for any mishap, any calamity is to ask in what way is this a judgment for something that God wants to bring to my attention.
08:04 -  Having put that before the Lord and examined that, if God does not indicate that then you're free to give another construction to what you're suffering as not being the statement of judgment.
08:16 -  But the first examination and the first interpretation will not err by asking if it is not already a judgment that God is bringing to our consideration. And we're not only talking about natural catastrophes or tsunamis in the world
08:32 -  but instances in our own life, a sickness that has befallen us, the marriage that has gone awry, the son who is out of faith, the fellowship that is being shaken.
08:43 -  In the first analysis we have to ask, Lord what are you saying through this? Are you indicating that you're allowing this, that there's something that we need to recognize that we have not seen
08:55 -  in which we have been in error or in sin or neglect and that already that this is your patient indication that something needs radical correction and we receive it as judgment.
09:10 -  So the church itself needs to come into a fresh respect for the issue of judgment as not being contrary to God but in the very essence of his holy nature. And that it's a mercy for judgment, especially of a preliminary kind
09:30 -  that will save us if we will be turned by it from eternal judgments in which there's no remedy. So God cannot be holy and therefore cannot be just because injustice is a part of unholiness.
09:45 -  God's holiness and hatred of sin necessarily infer the punishment of it. Judgment is intrinsic to the issue of the holiness of God. The author takes up a new issue at this point in his article
10:02 -  that the issue of God's holiness is the issue of our trust. We can trust God and believe God and honor God for his word and for his promises because he is holy.
10:16 -  And so our reservation, our doubt, our lack of security, our unwillingness to commit is a statement that we have not really understood God as holy. If we had that his promises are airtight.
10:35 -  If you seek me with all your heart and all your soul, you shall be found with me. If you ask your natural father for bread, will he give you stone? How much more than will your heavenly father give the gift of the Holy Spirit to them and ask him?
10:50 -  There's much reservation, particularly in the realm of trusting God for the Holy Spirit by those who do not have an absolute confidence in his promise. They're afraid that they'll get a stone rather than bread.
11:04 -  Even though God said he'll give a gift to them who ask him. So the issue of holiness and the recognition of the holiness of God is the basis for trust and confidence in the God who speaks and the God who promises.
11:19 -  So I just want to read this here. This attribute renders God a fit object for trust and dependence. The notion of an unholy and unrighteous God is an uncomfortable idea of him
11:33 -  and beats off our hands from laying any hold of him. It is upon this attribute the reputation and honor of God in the world is built. What encouragement can we have to believe him?
11:44 -  What incentives could we have to serve him without the luster of this in his nature? The very thought of an unrighteous God is enough to drive men at the greatest distance from them. As the honesty of a man gives a reputation to his word,
11:58 -  so does the holiness of God give credit to his promises. The issue of God's holiness is the issue of his word. The confidence we can have in his promises because he who speaks is holy.
12:17 -  I wrote at the bottom of the page. Can it be that the frequent failure to ask and receive the gift of the Spirit is to be attributed to a lack of the knowledge of God's holiness?
12:32 -  All those denominational people who have found a way to gainsay and put aside the issue of the baptism of the Holy Spirit as that which is perfect has already come, there's no need for it or that we already have it in our new birth
12:45 -  because there's a nervousness, there's a fear, I believe, to trust God and to believe for a phenomenon that has got to come out of your own mouth. So not to be tested in an area of which they are insecure in faith,
13:00 -  they put aside the question entirely as being a non-question. Are you following me? Are you following me?
13:06 -  In my debates over the years with mainline fundamentalists who negate the baptism of the Holy Spirit, it's always on some specious denominational doctrinal ground that it's not a valid and present experience to be obtained now.
13:26 -  And what I suspect is that they elaborate all kinds of doctrinal reasons to save themselves from a test of faith that they do not believe they will pass. Because you could believe for many things,
13:41 -  but to believe to receive the promise of the baptism of the Holy Spirit requires an evidence that issues out of your own mouth by faith. So I'm saying the real problem is this, they have not believed God as holy.
13:57 -  The lack of the acknowledgement and knowledge of God as holy and whose promise is true is reflected in the fear of believing for that promise. Whereas if they had a full confidence that he who speaks is holy and will not contradict himself,
14:16 -  then they will have an abandon and a youthiness in faith by which they enter the precious dimension. And by the way, the baptism of the Holy Spirit is a precious, necessary dimension. To forsake that is to live a stunted and inadequate Christian life all the days of your life.
14:37 -  You're shorting yourself from such an intention of benefit that God would not allow the church to proceed in its fulfillment until it had waited and tarried in Jerusalem to be endued with power from on high.
14:52 -  The church is as much under obligation now for that endowment, for the fulfillment of what was begun then as it was in its inception. To live a fundamentalist, correct, technically technical life
15:07 -  independent of the reality of that baptism by which when you speak with tongues you edify yourself and you're built up in the inner man. How can you afford not to be?
15:19 -  When Paul says, I speak with tongues more than you all, he's not at all making a single reference to any public statement in tongues in church situations that needed to be interpreted.
15:31 -  He's speaking exclusively of his personal, private, devotional life. And I want to say that if he had not spoken in tongues more than us all, he would not be Paul.
15:41 -  His power publicly and what he performs and expresses as benefits the church and the epistles he writes is the result of the luxuriating of his soul in the realm of being bathed in spirit
15:55 -  by praying in the spirit in tongues more than us all. To avoid that dimension is to remove from the believer the most essential gift of God for the overcoming life.
16:12 -  Yet there are millions in that fundamentalist mentality that have put it aside. I believe out of fear of an insecurity of an inadequate faith I can appropriate because they do not trust God for his promise as holy
16:29 -  that if you ask your heavenly father he'll give you the gift of the Holy Spirit more than your natural father will give you bread and not a stone. To believe God as holy is to believe God who speaks,
16:42 -  is to believe God who promises and to receive what he promises because you can have an uttermost confidence because he's holy, holy, holy and he's not a man that he should lie.
16:54 -  I've never before considered that the issue of the knowledge of God as holy is the issue of trust for us and confidence in his word and in his promise. And that where we are weak in that regard, we're weak in the knowledge of his holiness
17:09 -  so that if the promises are to be restored and act upon it will be in proportion as we've come to a fresh acknowledgement of God as holy and that he's not a man that he should lie.
17:24 -  For if you who are unholy having so much corruption to render you cruel can bestow upon your children the good things they want how much more shall God who is holy and has nothing in him to check his mercy
17:37 -  from this to his creatures grant the petition of his supplicants. So I'm grateful that the author takes up this issue that we should have a confidence because God's holiness is engaged in his inviolable covenant.
18:00 -  So the whole issue of covenant and his promise and faithfulness rest upon the holiness of God who has made it. And so in the midst of despair and in things that seem terribly out of sort,
18:18 -  broken situations, the thing to which Zika is returning with his wife now who has flipped out our sister with her situation with her husband in Hong Kong whatever situation we're facing however despairing
18:32 -  we have an ultimate confidence in the covenant-keeping God that as we will honor and keep covenant he will honor that honoring and be the third-fold cold cord that will not be broken
18:45 -  and see us through what seemingly otherwise would be a hopeless situation and bring it through not just to a resolution by which domestic harmony is obtained but his glory forever that in fact he's allowed the crisis for the revelation of his greater glory
19:04 -  that there's more at stake here than the issue of personal happiness it's the glory of God forever who allows something to be broken in order to be restored to the everlasting praise of his glory.
19:19 -  Let us get and preserve right and strong apprehensions of this divine perfection without a due sense of it we can never exalt God in our hearts and the more distinct conceptions we have of this and the rest of his attributes
19:33 -  the more we glorify him. So we can almost say that the want of worship, true worship the want of real exaltation of God
19:42 -  the want of adoration is also the issue of holiness. That there's something wanting in the way in which we have perceived God that does not release us into an ultimate dimension
19:57 -  of the kind of worship and praise which is his due. That adoration is an ultimate statement but it only comes to those who know him as holy, holy, holy.
20:09 -  And therefore when they open and lift their voices in praise something rings, something registers out of a depth of that knowledge that transfigures the whole act of worship
20:23 -  and makes it more than just the issue of music or song. So we need to strive for the greater knowledge. Our reference to God will arrive in a greater degree
20:37 -  if every act of duty be ushered in and seasoned with the thoughts of God as sitting upon a throne of holiness we shall have a more becoming sense of our own vileness
20:49 -  a greater honor to his service, a deeper respect in his presence if our understanding be more cleared and possessed with notions of disperfection. Thus, before a view of God in this part of his glory
21:04 -  before you fall down before the throne and assure yourselves you will find your hearts in services quickened with a new and lively spirit.
21:13 -  This knowledge of God as holy is not automatic needs to be sought, needs to be cultivated, needs to be nurtured needs to be increased, needs to be deepened
21:24 -  and with it will come a consequent benefit for every aspect of the believing life worship, service, prayer, devotion it will save us from being merely mechanical
21:37 -  in our morning devotional times will come to it with a greater eagerness and a greater delight everything rests on the knowledge of God as holy
21:48 -  and yet everything contends against that knowledge the world wants to block that out or disparage the holiness of God so it needs to be contended for
21:59 -  to contend for the faith once and for all given that saints as I've said innumerable times it's much more than the issues of the sum of its doctrines
22:07 -  to contend for the faith is to contend for God as God is to contend for God as holy because everything seems to militate against it
22:19 -  to reduce him, to make him a common place a Johnny come lately, a one who's doing your errands there's something about the nature of things
22:30 -  that contends against the issue of the holiness of God that needs to be pursued with an intention and you could believe that it will be resisted
22:42 -  the enemy does not want us to grow in this knowledge because this knowledge affects everything it affects our worship, it affects our service
22:53 -  it affects our relationship it affects our willingness to bear through present struggle because what is at stake is his name, his honor, his glory
23:02 -  so strive to come to an increased and deepened knowledge because as I come to the end now of this chapter the author says, holiness is our life
23:22 -  the life of the soul consists not of its being or spiritual substance the excellency of its faculties of understanding but in the moral and becoming operations of them
23:34 -  the spirit is only life because of righteousness I have to confess, he's over my head I don't know what he's saying, but I like it
23:46 -  the spirit is life because of righteousness the issue of holiness is the issue of life because the issue of holiness is the genius of what is moral
24:00 -  and if you take from man the moral quotient you reduce man, you make of him an animal the moral thing is the distinctive
24:09 -  and it's rooted in the issue of what is holy the fact that God is holy means that he's given us conscience and that he's given us a moral root of being
24:21 -  that there's something more to life than just feeding your face washing your clothes, going through motions if you are not distinctly a moral being
24:31 -  you have lost the uniqueness of your identity as a human being and the enemy is bent upon ruining and removing this moral consciousness from man
24:45 -  deadening the conscience but he is saying that this moral quotient that reflects and is given by the God who is holy
24:55 -  is the very issue of our humanity Jesus said, I've come to bring you life and that more abundantly Paul was a full-orbed man
25:06 -  he wasn't a little paper cutout walking on eggshells in a kind of pseudo-spirituality he was a mensch, he was a man
25:16 -  he knew the poetry of the Greeks, he said as even your own poets have written he was diverse, he was broad in his understanding
25:26 -  he could relate to Jews, he could relate to pagans he was the man of God, he was the man of the spirit he was a man of deep feelings, who knew the sorrow and grief
25:36 -  by which he would wish himself accursed for his brethren's sake and then two, three chapters later is exalting God oh the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God
25:46 -  Paul could not be that man without the moral dimension that comes in the knowledge of the holy
25:55 -  that needs to come into our consciousness so my first address to teachers in Albania out of an eighty year history of atheism
26:07 -  who are now supported by a German mission is that I speak to the faculty these teachers of our children attending their school
26:16 -  and the Lord gave me a message I had never before spoken moral, the word moral what is moral? I said what is your teaching profession
26:26 -  if it does not have its end in your consciousness, moral intention what is your subject matter if it is not a vehicle
26:35 -  for the bringing up of moral consideration what is moral but the considering of what is right or just or good or bad
26:44 -  in the situations by which we live how can you be a teacher and not bring these considerations before your students
26:53 -  and unless you yourself are considering them how shall you bring them and when you begin to weigh moral issues
27:02 -  you find a kind of exhaustion your inner man that was not there and in fact the demand is so great
27:11 -  that you cannot consider moral things independent of God you need his energy even to consider the things that are ultimate, that are moral
27:20 -  and holy so in the last analysis the moral concern drives you to God
27:29 -  because in the last analysis the issue of what is moral is God Peter Forsythe
27:38 -  one of my favorite authors speaks of love as holy love and if you omit the holy
27:47 -  then the love becomes something less sentimental what distinguishes the love of God is a holy love and so even that love permits terror, permits fear
27:56 -  permits the knowledge of God that makes us afraid and to tremble Paul says knowing the terror of God I persuade men
28:05 -  there's something to be said for the fear of God as a grace to give him the proper reverence and do
28:14 -  that he deserves all of these are the expressions of his holiness
28:23 -  so every person is morally dead who lives an unholy life it is only holiness that fits us
28:32 -  for communion with God because it brings a greater nearness and partakes more fully of the fountain of life
28:41 -  communion with God is proportionate to our ability to approach a God who is holy and to dwell in the presence
28:50 -  and so obtain the remarkable benevolences that issue from his life as we can approach a God
28:59 -  who is holy with what communion can an excellent God have with deformed creatures a living God with the dead
29:08 -  without holiness none shall see God the creature must be stripped of his unrighteousness or God of his purity before they can come together
29:17 -  likeness is the ground of communion and of delight in it the opposition between God and unholy souls
29:26 -  is as great as that between light and darkness divine fruition is not so much by a union of presence as a union of nature
29:35 -  the holy as I am holy is not just an abstract command it's God's inducement
29:44 -  that we can come into his presence and in that receiving communicate and mediate to us
29:53 -  those things that issue out from his own holy life because he cannot have communion with that which is contrary to himself
30:02 -  so be holy as I am holy and giving us every grace to be that and to esteem that and to seek that for that communion
30:11 -  so the author writes by be often reviewing and ruminating on the holiness of God especially as discovered in Christ
30:20 -  the excellent idea of the holiness of God in Christ perfects our understanding and awakens all the powers of our soul
30:29 -  to be formed to be actions worthy of him how can we arise to conformity to God in Christ
30:38 -  whose most holy nature we seldom glance upon and more rarely sink our souls into the depths of it by meditation
30:47 -  be frequent in the meditation of the holiness of God think upon it contemplate it
30:56 -  read men who have like this God offered to deep waters to try and express and define
31:05 -  the issues that pertain to his holiness sit down yourself and write what is the holiness of God, what is righteousness
31:14 -  try and define, try and articulate make it your own we mustn't be lazy and slothful here
31:23 -  because the more that we grapple with, wrestle with, love seek to know and to appropriate the more we attain the reality itself
31:32 -  how to become holy as he is holy contemplation of what is holiness by the meditation upon it particularly as it is revealed
31:41 -  in his son be frequent in the meditation of the holiness of God let us make God our end
31:50 -  every man's mind forms itself to a likeness to that which makes it its chief end, what is your chief end
31:59 -  what is the object of your contemplation what do you give your thought and consideration we have to shift from other
32:08 -  and lesser subjects to the subject of the holiness of God if we ourselves to come into increasingly
32:17 -  that reality through meditation when God and his glory are made our end we shall find a silent likeness
32:26 -  passed in upon us and the beauty of God let degrees enter upon our souls in every deliberate action let us reflect upon
32:35 -  the divine purity as a pattern let us examine whether anything we are prompted to bear an impression of God upon it, whether it looks like a thing
32:44 -  that God himself would do see whether it has the sense of God upon it how in keeping it is with his nature
32:53 -  and in what manner the holiness of God can be glorified thereby I know that I am God shut off the clamor, shut off the distraction
33:02 -  pull the plug on the TV the various things that drain time, attention and energy in the quest for news
33:11 -  but what is the news in the last analysis nothing new at all and the curiosity for the news
33:20 -  is sometimes with believers is almost perverse they have to have the news when nothing in fact is really new
33:29 -  it's deadly so we need to make room for be critical of, eliminate distraction
33:38 -  seek the knowledge of the Holy deliberate upon it, dwell upon it and become it
33:47 -  because as he says holiness is our life let us address for holiness to God the fountain of it
33:56 -  as he is the author of bodily life so is he the author of his own life the life of God in the soul
34:05 -  by his holiness he makes man holy as the sun by his light enlightens the air he is not only the holy one but our holy one
34:14 -  the Lord that sanctifies us the holiness to purify us the excellence of being a sun to comfort us
34:23 -  a shield to protect us giving grace and glory he only can mold us into the divine frame the great original can only derive the excellence
34:32 -  of his own nature to us we are too low, too lame to lift up ourselves too much in love with our own deformity to admit
34:41 -  that this beauty without a heavenly power God himself in the last analysis is the author, the purveyor
34:50 -  the communicator, the giver of his own holy nature and this is God's object
34:59 -  that we should be holy as he is holy and have eternal communion with him on that basis and that he provides the expression
35:08 -  of his own nature that we might obtain isn't that remarkable? we earthly things that were taken off of dung keeps
35:17 -  are being fitted to an eternal relationship with God in holiness, in union with him in his own nature
35:26 -  what greater gift than the giving of himself in his essential attribute, holiness and that that process is now
35:35 -  is going on now and as we cannot attain to it so we cannot maintain it without him
35:44 -  God gave Adam and he lost it and God gives it us, we shall lose it without his influencing and preserving grace
35:53 -  the channel will be without a stream if the fountains do not bubble it forth, and the streams will vanish if the fountain does not constantly supply them
36:02 -  let us apply ourselves to him for holiness and by this we honor God and advantage ourselves
36:11 -  so seek him for this expressed thing his nature, his holiness
36:20 -  that we might be like him not to be embarrassed by it or think that somehow it's unbecoming
36:29 -  to aspire to the holiness of God after all it's God's intention, his provisions, the whole end of our salvation, our redemption that we should be like him
36:38 -  holy as he is holy so let's make it a petition
36:47 -  let's ask and keep on asking and receive the means by which he's communicating his nature
36:56 -  dealing with us in the areas of struggle and disappointment, life situations that we wonder how come that we're in such an impasse
37:05 -  such a struggle, because by it uniquely we're being fitted for it, it's the means
37:14 -  by which his nature is being communicated and he's identifying lesser things that would have been acceptable in our sight, but are contrary to his holiness
37:23 -  that now need to be identified and dealt with, put away that we might come into the ultimate
37:32 -  condition that he himself abides, and nothing less evidently would have obtained this, and that it's worth it
37:41 -  we will say later it was worth it all it was painful, it was agonizing, what a struggle it put all my guts out, I spit my guts out
37:50 -  what poor Zika is going back to is going to be the struggle of an ultimate kind it will be stupefying, it will be madness
37:59 -  he'll see unfaithfulness he'll see desertion, he'll see betrayal he'll catch his wife in bed with another man
38:08 -  maybe more than once or whatever is comparable that rips the very soul out of a man whatever is needful, the end there will be
38:17 -  a holy man, serving the purposes of God and somehow it could not have been attained without that struggle
38:26 -  so when you ask, Lord that I might be holy as you are holy and whatever it takes to obtain it
38:35 -  you're asking much, and when his answer comes as trial, as suffering don't be surprised by the unusual
38:44 -  trial as if it's a shock as if it were not intended
38:53 -  this is the very answer to the prayer that I've asked to be perfected in the holiness of God by necessity requires
39:02 -  a trial requires demand, requires dealings of a kind that we would otherwise have avoided
39:11 -  if we would have been satisfied for less we would have been nice guys who also believed we would not have had to face it
39:20 -  but if we got to be holy as he is holy there's no shortcut except through the provision of sacrifice of trial of dealings
39:29 -  the cross so Lord grant to us
39:38 -  ultimate desire to obtain every day more the measure of your holiness
39:47 -  is simply not enough to be a nice guy who believes the world is not going to be saved by nice guys
39:56 -  the world has a much deeper need than a band-aid a little amelioration a little pat on the back
40:05 -  it needs a reality of an ultimate kind which is God by those who can mediate that reality
40:14 -  because they abide and dwell in it because they know they're God so Lord help us from being sissies
40:23 -  that want to be spared grant us a jealousy for this knowledge of your ultimate nature Lord
40:32 -  that does not come cheap to tell upon what it is but to obtain it by union with you
40:41 -  in the fellowship of your sufferings so we thank you my God that you shall have a people for your name
40:50 -  they shall be the very thing in themselves thank you Lord precious God your intention for us is
40:59 -  ultimate help us with a little help we pray to bear all that we must
41:09 -  that we might be like you for Jesus' sake