The Ministry of Elijah 4 of 5

00:00 -  Defining the Prophet, what is a Prophet? If Elijah must first come, and that's a Prophet of an ultimate end time, wilderness time, what are the constituent elements of the defined characteristics of the Elijah Prophet? What kind of Prophet must we expect and is God
00:25 -  waiting for? All the more if it's to be corporate. What are the defining elements? What distinguishes that kind of Prophet on the basis of what we're studying? What kind of Prophet is he? What is that kind of Prophet? He's not a writing Prophet. He's not going to write the Book
00:44 -  of Isaiah or Jeremiah or Ezekiel. He's a Prophet of action and confrontation. What are we seeing from this Prophet in action that is quintessentially the definition of Prophet? Because there are going to be many false Prophets. What distinguishes them? One lives from a raven or just a simple
01:10 -  meal of a widow, the other Jezebel stable. What does that mean? One insists on a sumptuous lifestyle after all this God's man of faith and power, the other is willing for not only simplicity but self-denial. In fact, insists on it. Not the least of the agonies that I have for the
01:32 -  Prophetical School, don't tell Abraham, it's the food. It's a continual irritant to me. I mean, I'm enjoying my share in eating it, but there's something about it that just throws me the wrong way. It's incompatible with what we are about. And yet, in the God bless her, the way she's made,
01:52 -  this helps mercy nature. My wife wants you to always remember that how great the meals were. Right. And I wonder to what degree we're paying a little price for that. And being blunted and dulled. I wouldn't have minded fasting every other day. I'm just going to say, yeah, I would have.
02:10 -  One day's food is enough to carry for two days, but every day, three meals a day. So let's learn from that. Anybody want to take a shot at it right now? What in your opinion, hearing what you've been hearing and discussing, stands out to you as a foremost characteristic of the authentic
02:31 -  last days Prophet? Where did the thought come from that instead of taking her aside privately, just sharing a few, that we should make it public. We should all hear it above the Lord's sovereignty and precious design. Another thought that came to me, remember that Elijah stretched himself out over
02:53 -  the child three times. And don't lose the prophetic words here. Stretched himself. He put his own life out on the line for that life. As there's so much as to say, Lord, take the life in me and let it come into that child. Just like Paul. Lord, I would wish myself a curse. Just like Moses. Lock me out of
03:20 -  your book of life. Take my life for that, but don't take their life. Let this wilderness for exchange. What did Jesus do on the cross? Gave himself. So unless that transaction has been made and is made again and again, there's no bringing life back to the son. There's no confronting the
03:45 -  nation. There's no even showing it that it's false. It doesn't even realize it's hesitating between two opinions. Unless there's a man who not only can confront them with words, but what he is in himself is the statement of an absoluteness toward God. That if they didn't see it, they would
04:05 -  have no standard for measure. But having seen it, they can be convicted not only by what the man does, but what he is in himself. Because what he does is altogether related with what he is. And this for the prophet more than any other calling in God, except the apostle. The apostolic calling
04:26 -  subsumes prophetic also. But a teacher is not required to this, nor an evangelist nor a pastor. The prophet of the apostle Paul. They must be the thing in itself. And so in what way does Elijah depict that? He stretched himself out over the dead thing in his own chamber in his own bed
04:55 -  and cried out three times. How would you sum up what we were talking about just before this break about the willingness to be obedient, believing that God had led you to set up this confrontation that it could only be met by God's fire falling, and yet willing even to take the risk that it
05:19 -  will not. And not having any assurance the one way or the other. And yet trusting and doing. What is that? What is that a statement of if we're looking to define the prophet? He's defined in crisis. Crisis reveals it's a crisis of ultimate showdown confrontation.
05:43 -  And what is he showing in his obedience to be the one fool I alone am left. They've got 950 false prophets with all the marbles and the credentials and everything going for them. And I alone am left in this confrontation a nation hanging in the balance.
06:04 -  What does it show about what this what inheres in the word prophet? I like to use the phrase an utterness toward God. When you get a chance to rewatch Menes, Love Not the World, and the final chapters of that book he talks about the combat with the principalities and powers of the
06:23 -  air. He says for lesser requirements like saving souls or evangelism this is not required. But when it comes to this battle it cannot be won except by an utterness toward God. And if a prophet is anything he is utter. His utterness toward God even offends his wife. I will bring him into places
06:52 -  where she will have to suffer the embarrassment and reproach of his stink up in the penthouse apartment of the celebrated religious personalities of the world. It's his utterness that makes him so despicable. But what what does that mean? Utter? Entire. He was utter. Entire. No
07:16 -  Holzberg pulling out all the stuff. I'm trying to think of every phrase that gets at this because this is what the church lacks most of all and robs it from being the church. The church that is not utter toward God is not the church and in fact what was Israel's condition
07:38 -  that finally had to be confronted? An apostasy between two opinions. To be between two opinions is the antithesis of utterness toward God. Utterness is single-minded devotion in totality to God. Lock stock and barrel. But what
08:05 -  was Israel's condition when they largely confronted it? Were they utter? Just the opposite. They performed the religious requirements. They had their sacrifices. They had their high holidays. They had their young kippur and all of these. They went to the temple. They paid the temple tax.
08:23 -  But at the same time playing footsie with demons, propped with bail, with self-gratification, with false Gods, with all the kinds of things. And somehow they didn't even see a contradiction because they lacked a single-minded utterness toward God. And the prophet is the thing in
08:47 -  himself. He is absolutely utter. Take that word, dust that word off and eat it. Remember that Ezekiel had to eat the scroll. Eat that word. Take it into you and be it, become it. And there'll be a report for that. And it's troubling.
09:11 -  How he will trouble Israel. Can't you be nice? You have to be so rude and accuse and confront and pull up and destroy and root out and pluck up. Only an utterness will permit you to do that. It's the missing element of our modern-day Christianity, which if we persist in it,
09:34 -  we will find ourselves finally halting between two opinions and becoming apostate. You'll notice that when we come to his prayer, after he's done all these things, what verses matter? Verse 36, after he had filled the trench with water, 12 barrels full and all these things,
09:56 -  at the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, Elijah the prophet came there and said, O Lord, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel, interesting that Jacob was left out, let it be known this day that you are God in Israel and that I am your servant,
10:10 -  that I have done all these things at your word. So here the text makes it clear he didn't make it up. This was not his scheme. He's done all these things at his word. The whole confrontation, the way it has been established, it's something that God has explicitly given him by his word,
10:32 -  but it gets awfully foolish. Have you ever had this experience where you know you've done something by the word of God, but when you're doing it, the foolishness of it really strikes your heart and a doubt rises up whether you in fact have really heard God, because would
10:49 -  it require something that absurd? If you haven't had that experience, you will. You notice I'm doing everything to show the insecurity of the prophetic life, no matter how great a previous history the prophet has had with God. It shall not rain nor do, your meal shall not be exhausted,
11:13 -  your oil shall not run short, and God's indicating everything. No matter what previous success you have had and God confirming and indicating, the next thing leaves you as open and as raw to the possibility of missing it with a hearing God's word or as if you had never had those
11:37 -  successes. In other words, you'll never be able to lean on your past experience. It's not to say that the past experience was not invaluable, but the next crisis is as if it's altogether fresh and every issue of faith and the palpitation of soul and fear and insecurity
11:59 -  comes in like a flood and yet you're still required to act. You've got to act. Elijah is the prophet of action and not a writing prophet. That's not to say that Ezekiel and Jeremiah did not act, but Elijah did not write a book.
12:24 -  He's the man of action in the last, final moment of the extremity of Israel. So summing this up and you're writing your little essay trying to define the essence of propheticness because Elijah must first come and we may well have to be that prophetic thing
12:50 -  ourselves. What are we looking for? How will we recognize it? What are we ourselves being required to be? What are the constituent elements that make Elijah Elijah? Distinctively he's uttered toward God. What are we saying now about the risks of faith? How would you put that
13:13 -  in a principle? It's a suffering, isn't it? It's an anguish. If anyone thinks that faith is a patsy that all you need to do is invoke certain scriptures and you've got a catalect, if that's faith, it's certainly not prophetic faith. Prophetic faith
13:31 -  is a trust and yea though he slay me, yea though the fire doesn't fall and I'm the one who's going to be hacked to pieces, still will I do it. I'll still do it if the fire does not fall and I'm the one who's hacked to pieces. It's a faith full of tremblings. I don't know how to sum this up.
13:52 -  It's always an anguish, always a tension, never a certitude on the basis of previous success. The next thing is if there had been no history and who is sufficient for that? The better question is who would be willing to be a candidate for that?
14:13 -  You think that Elijah was drafted or was he a voluntary conscript? He was compelled to be? How about Elijah on whose mantle, on whose head and shoulders Elijah's mantle is going to fall? Was he compelled to be that? He was chosen but does that mean he
14:35 -  had no choice in the matter that he could not have refused it? In fact Elijah almost marks him when he said he wants to say goodbye to his folks and make a sacrifice and boil up his oxen. Well, I'll see you around. Elijah would have liked instant obedience.
15:02 -  Is freedom an essential to being the prophetic man and prophetic obedience? I think so. I don't know why. Of all the great prophets Elijah is the only one that was translated. Right? What does that signify? There's only one other that I know of Old Testament
15:28 -  characters who were translated that has never had to face death, never had to face death. Even the death that we're describing of the multiple deaths of believing God, yea though he slain me, yea though the fire does not fall, yea that I stand
15:44 -  with my face sticking out at City College of New York or before the whole assembled nation, yet will I obey you. That's a death, that's a prophetic death. And if God knows how many of those Elijah tasted, that he didn't have to pass through that so to
16:03 -  speak. Those multiple deaths were somehow related to the fact that he was translated and maybe that's a picture of the last day's company of a of a first fruits company that will be translated and taken up to be before the Lord at Mount Zion before the general resurrection of
16:24 -  the church. That there are certain saints who follow the Lamb withersoever he goeth, who are virgins undefiled with women, who have come to such a quality of union with God, have come to such a place of utterness through death that they need not wait to be raised from the dead,
16:49 -  they are translated. I wouldn't want to make that a doctrine but it's a thought to consider that Elijah, like Enoch, never tasted physical death. So we haven't yet summed up what this, the willingness to bear the death of prophetic
17:14 -  tension, that fire may not fall and yet to be obedient. I just, I don't want to give you too much help, prophetic obedience is the willingness to bear the humiliation of God not answering, even as he may have led you to suspect in giving you by the word that you should perform this
17:35 -  confrontation. In other words, it's an ultimate kind of obedience, a kind that God would not require of others. Okay, verse 31, Elijah's first step after mocking the false prophets, maybe your God is asleep, maybe he's gone to the John.
18:01 -  John, what do you call it? The John? The WC? What a taunting mocking, derisive thing Elijah is performing and leaving those false prophets is in a foam of frustration and failure. Now it's his turn. Maybe he thought, what sort of man so that who shall he reap now that I have mocked them,
18:30 -  am I going to be mocked? Now that they have failed and I have mocked them in their failure, now will I fail? Don't think that the enemy is not at your elbow playing on you, the accused of the brethren, in that grinding opposition when your moment comes. So what's the first thing that he
18:50 -  does? He explores the altar that has been broken down. What ever does that mean? If this is somehow a classic requirement and must be expected in the Elijah prophet of the last days, first we have to identify what it represents. What would you say? The altars in the groves,
19:15 -  altars to the false Gods in the high places, that was part of the pagan degeneracy of ten tribes. They had no access to Jerusalem, there was always friction between Judah of Jerusalem and the temple and priesthood. But what of those in the ten tribes who did not give themselves to the
19:38 -  prophets of Baal or were struggling somehow in the course of time earlier to make authentic sacrifice before God? I think that it was something like this. This may have been one of those altars that had been previously used in an authentic way but had fallen to a place of disrepair and
19:57 -  neglect in the apostasy that had come to the ten tribes. And it's this that Elijah found on Carmel and restored and put his sacrifice on that altar. And how do we know that it fell in favor of God's sight? Because God's fire fell on it. So now, what is he doing in this enormously significant act
20:22 -  that would be revelatory about the heart of the prophet who is called to restore all things? The first thing that he restores is the altar of Israel. 12 stones. What's the significance of the number 12? All numbers are highly charged. 12 tribes, 12 vessels, the statement of God's
20:53 -  divine government. 12 gates in the eternal city inscribed with the names of the 12 apostles. 12, 12, 12, 12, 12. I'll tell you how utter I am. When I go to a gas station, I get filled up on pump 12. If I can't find 12, I'll
21:18 -  take seven or five or three. But God forbid I should never use six. You guys need to pray for me. I'm just that fanatical about numbers. Becky knows. There's an utterness in me about 12. I start drooling. I can't explain it. The staff, the juices run. 12. It's so holy. It's so
21:44 -  in the mystery of God, his government, his structures, his eternal wisdom. And it's the first thing that the prophet touches and restores. And I don't think they were little pebbles. He's going to put a big bullock on this altar. They were probably more
22:04 -  like 12 small boulders. And he put his gut into it. I mean, it was a physical exertion to restore that bolt. It was not a little bead of sweat. The work of restoration is monumental. It's backbreaking. You spit your guts out. You taste your blood
22:27 -  in hefting those stones that have been scattered, knocked apart, sustained. It didn't fall apart. It was torn down. What does that imply? Come on, you scholars. There's one thing for a neglect by which stones
22:46 -  kind of fall apart. But this was the altar that was torn down. When you tear something down, and what does that imply? There's a rebellion, vindictiveness, vehemence, anger against God. This is rebellion against God, not just to neglect his altars, but to tear them down.
23:13 -  It's the utmost impertinence before the most time. And that's the statement to which Israel had come. And all Israel that had participated or had benignly allowed that kind of thing to take place and had not itself restored it is now watching the prophet do so.
23:37 -  What a man. All assembled Israel is watching him. And before he does anything else, he restores this. So a second essay would be, having first defined the prophet, is what is the corollary to this significant act for us in our prophetic call in the last days?
24:00 -  Which means to say, are our altars knocked down? What do you mean? If there's anything celebrated charismatically today, it's worship and praise. What's the corollary today? Is the altar of God knocked down today when it has been ostensibly celebrated in such a
24:23 -  welter of tapes and cassettes and musical groups and worship teams? I've never heard more talk about worship, worship, worship than now. But I've also never experienced more conflict with worship teams and worship leaders than now, because personally in the bringing of the
24:42 -  prophetic word in the congregations of God. If all of this is written for our admonition upon whom the ends of the age have come, if we're moving to exactly this kind of final showdown, the church moving toward apostasy doesn't even know it. Many false prophets and false comforters and
25:01 -  to Israel and to the church, many smooth operators and all of that eating at the Jezebel's table and living high on the hog and making a very good living at it. What does this mean for us who are called to be the Elijah band?
25:19 -  What altar is falling down? Is there an altar collapsing in our generation? What is an altar? But it's a place of death, the cross, sacrifice. God says my house shall be a house of sacrifice, or it's not my house. Whenever it becomes groovy and easy and convenient,
25:39 -  it's no longer my house. It is not sacrifice. It's a place of sacrifice. In fact, the very first time that the word worship is used in the Bible is where? Abraham. Absolutely. At what moment? When he was going to offer himself. That's right. He says to his young men,
26:00 -  you wait here below, I and the lad who go up and down there and worship. He meant sacrifice. That the very first use of the word worship is in the context of ultimate sacrifice. It's a synonym for sacrifice. And what would you say of the church today?
26:20 -  What does it cost to go on Sunday for a couple of hours and throw a few bucks in the collection? But even to tithe, is it utterness for God or a modest and minimal religious discharge that frees you for your real pursuits? Well, who's letting God's people get away with it?
26:44 -  Who's not laying this to their charge and crying out and confronting them with this nominalness and superficiality that allows baptism to become a mechanical religious ordinance where people do not know that they're going into a place of death?
27:00 -  Who's allowing this whole show to go on and teaching them to sing choruses and amens and hallelujahs and to feel that they've done God's service? False prophets of Baal. No. If they're not that, if this continues unchallenged, it will become that.
27:22 -  The altars of God are either being knocked down or it's in process. I think it's more down than we know. And ironically, at the very hour when it's being more celebrated, when worship has never seen it been brought to such a place of ultimate adoration and celebration as now.
27:45 -  Did you catch this? And at the same hour, I personally and others like me, I'm supposing, are finding themselves increasingly in conflict with worship. Worship leaders, worship teams, vying for what shall be predominant, the worship or the word of God out of our prophetic minds.
28:06 -  I have actually felt rivalry and men taking all kinds of time to do their thing and worship and create the mood and the atmosphere until, my God, the time they're finished. You've got hardly the time to clear your throat, let alone to bring a real word. And instead of the people being
28:24 -  prepared for the prophetic word of worship, they've even been turned off against it. It's inimical to the prophetic word rather than conducive. Inimical means opposed. The thing that is supposed to be calculated to adorn and prepare the way for
28:43 -  the word, ironically, somehow, charismatically, becomes the thing that opposes it and is in rivalry and opposition to it, where I can actually feel the competition and the tension. And I've had many times now to go to pastors and say, please, I've got such a word from the Lord,
29:03 -  will you see to it that you make room for it? And would it be possible just to remove a few of the choruses, sing fewer choruses, and the repetition of these choruses? My God, will it ever end? Why is it a weirdness to the flesh to hear it over and over, filling the room, filling
29:27 -  the time with so-called worship? So there's something that needs to be restored in truth that is intrinsic to the number 12, and only the prophet will have the guts to do it. He may have to knock down before he builds up. He may have to destroy what purports to be the
29:50 -  altar of worship and is really a plastic counterfeit and cannot sustain the true weight of sacrifice and induces God's people, as the old false prophets of Baal, to pseudo-religion of convenience. He's rebuilding an altar that once was and that did have 12 stones, and he's restoring it. He's
30:13 -  the prophet of restoration. He's bringing back something that once was but has now come to a place not only of decline or, what's the word, indifference, falling apart from disuse, but that had been violently rejected, violently thrown down. That very thing he rebuilds and restores.
30:37 -  You know, it's an easier thing to find some loose stones and put it together for the first time than to take what once was and has now been rejected violently and to rebuild it and to restore it. The work of restoration is greater than the work of inauguration. It's better to
30:55 -  start from scratch than to go back and to deal with the things that once were and that had been rejected and bring them back. It's a monumental, back-breaking, gut-wrenching work. That's the work of restoration. Elijah must first come and inaugurate all things? No. Restore
31:19 -  all things. Unless this word restore is in our spirits, we're not prophetic candidates. A good way to test what you're calling us is to see what disposition you have to restore the ancient ways, the ancient paths, the things that have fallen down or been knocked down
31:44 -  and been cast aside. What is God impending that was at the first? I always say if you want to see something in its authentic configuration as God intended it, see it in its first expression in the scripture. That's why we're given the great patriarchal
32:04 -  figures. Abraham is the prototype, the father of faith, as it was given at the first. The church in the book of Acts, as it was at the first. What is it now? Something altogether other. Tradition, denominations, modernity, sophistication, modern technology,
32:27 -  uh how-to methodologies, bringing down God through court worship. That needs to be torn down, thrown down, rooted up, plucked out, and something restored that God has given from the first apostolic Christianity. And does that mean that we just make some wooden
32:48 -  imitation? It has got to be as authentic as it was at the beginning. When the glory of God was in the church, that men were afraid to join themselves to it. That anyone who violated against the spirit of truth, which was the glory of the church,
33:10 -  the ground the pillar of truth, were carried out feet first and buried by the young men. And to restore that before the Lord comes, there's some epical E-P-O-C-H-A-O task,
33:28 -  gut wrenching task, because it's so easy to go along. Only a man who has the vision, coming back to the homework assignment, what are the distinctives of the prophetic? The vision for the original, the jealousy for the glory that attended it, and cannot stomach
33:49 -  any deviation account of it, or modern day equivalent, and wants the glory of God that was at the first, and wants to see the authentic thing restored, and knows it's going to be such a labor to pick up those stones. I once gave a message, and I identified 12 stones. I gave
34:12 -  a name to each stone, truth. I can't remember what the others were, true faith, love, mercy, I forgot. But somehow the stones represented the authentic ingredients that make the church a church. And what does it take to restore them?
34:33 -  You know that the majority of people that I'm meeting who have read Spirit of Truth, that book, cannot finish it? I hear the same thing from all of them. Art, a wonderful book, challenging, I can't finish it. How come? It's too much for me.
34:51 -  I can't handle it. It makes such a demand. I've got to put this, maybe I'll come back to it another time, but right now, it's too much. That's how much the restoration of truth requires. What shall we say for faith, love, sacrifice?
35:12 -  We can go on. This is an enormous symbolic act, and I can't believe that the Lord is going to come until there's an Elijah in the earth again in the last days to do this. And we can't even identify what it is that has been drawn down. How shall we restore it? Even repentance itself,
35:36 -  is there such a thing as true and false repentance? It's actually the title of one of Charles Finney's books, and maybe we have been the victim of that in modern times. We don't even know what authentic repentance is, and you make a prayer and call on the name of the Lord, and
35:54 -  I'm sorry, and no concept of sin. The whole cheapening of the whole atonement that makes the gospel a method for salvation is one of the false things that needs to be restored. Repentance itself and you think once that altar has been rebuilt, then from there on in this easy sailing,
36:24 -  what does Peter say? I bring this to your remembrance. Moses, the song of Moses, in the last days you will recall this. How many of Paul's exhortations are repetitions again and again and again? God's people, if they're not reminded
36:45 -  and not what to recall and their integrity challenged, how long does it take before the true altar becomes false, or before it'll either fall by neglect or be thrown down in contempt? So another thing getting back to where is the prophet? He not only restores,
37:05 -  but he keeps the consciousness of the true thing before the people of God continually, keeps it in the place of restoration, so that the prophet's conduct is itself an instruction. He's not only the man, the thing in himself, but what he does is as instructive as what he says.
37:26 -  All Israel is watching this, that this man will take these pains. And just to show how important this first and initial act of restoration is, if he had sought to make the sacrifice on any more convenient platform for sacrifice that might have been available, would the fire of God have fallen?
37:47 -  Well, that's a great question. And I just would kind of suspect that there was an alternative of convenience available to him that he chose not to employ, but took the painstaking time and attention and labor and sacrifice to make sure that that sacrifice was on the authentic
38:09 -  altar of God, and not on something that might have been at hand that he might have employed, but was not the foundational twelve stone thing alone by which God's fire would fall. And I think we're going to be faced with those temptations also.
38:26 -  Just think on that. If he had done everything else right and failed on this foundational place, would the fire of God have fallen? I mean, this had to be perfect. And I would even be more impressed if God had not said to him that you need to do this.
38:48 -  That God said, yes, you'll cut up a bullock and you'll lay it out and have them bring barrels of water three times or four times three, twelve again, saturate the sacrifice. But God was silent about what would be the altar for the sacrifice and left it to see what would emanate out of the
39:09 -  prophet's own integrity and what he's made of and how jealous he would be for the foundations of the faith. You see what I mean? Though it doesn't say that, I wouldn't be a bit surprised that this is not everything according to what he was required by the word.
39:30 -  Just like we talked about the prophet who was standing there when Joshua, the high priest, his rags, his filthy clothing was being taken off and the angel of the Lord was telling him to put garments on him. And the last thing was that the prophet had to say, and put a new mitre on
39:48 -  his head. Put this mitre, this standard of authority that has the golden plate that says, Holy Son to the Lord. Don't forget that, that was left for the prophet. And if not by dictate, not by command, but it had to come up out of what he is in himself to wreck. There's some one last
40:09 -  thing that completes it. And if the prophet did not say it, the priest would not have been fully dressed and able to perform his priestly office. And I'm just taking a prophetic liberty here, though the text is silent, to suggest that I wonder if the Lord waited on the freedom of the
40:32 -  prophet, that something had to come up out of his own depths, out of something so intrinsic to his being about restoration, that he knew, that he knew, that he knew, that though everything else be right, the bullock, the wood, the water, that there must first be this foundation. And whatever
40:50 -  the labor, whatever the inconvenience, though all Israel is watching and wondering, he had to perform that freely out of himself. And if it had not been performed, though everything else had been right according to the word, there would not have been fire. The fire is the testimony of God's complete
41:10 -  comprehensive approval of everything performed by the prophet. And I wonder, you know, we've been waiting for fire to fall here. I don't mean this class. I wouldn't mind it. But over dominion, my God, the long history, how we have grown, how we have waited, how we have yearned, how we have cried
41:29 -  for the fire of God to fall. We knew desperately that we needed the experience of his glory. And we came close. There were some moments where you held your breath. And then always at the last moment, something went wrong or someone began to say something out of place and you just felt
41:48 -  the air go out of it and we had missed it again. It was not perfect. There was something, one thing that was, may have been lacking, that God is waiting for. So what a premium on prophetic jealousy for the glory of God that not any one thing be missed. However much there may be alternatives
42:11 -  that would be convenient at hand. They are not to be employed. But the stones of God, the 12 stones for whatever they stand. I just love this. You guys may think that I'm talking out of my past experience that I've preached this. I haven't. I think one message, I can't even remember what I said
42:32 -  those 12 stones were. But I am learning something. I'm enjoying this, interacting over this text. Bringing something out that would not have been accepted we have wrestled with this together. And don't think we're exhausting it. We're just scratching at it. But it deserves the deepest
42:55 -  examination to those called to the ministry of restoration, which is the distinctive call of the last day's prophetic work of God. What would be included in that restoration? We've even mentioned several of those things right over the table. Principally what? Israel is going
43:16 -  to be restored as a result of it. But it's the church that needs first to be restored. In true worship, true faith, true obedience to the word, truth itself. Because the church is the ground and pillar of truth. So it's an enormous, massive work of restoration for the church
43:39 -  that being restored it could be to Israel the ancient of God's restoration for it. A defunct church will not bring fire down to Israel. And why is it that the evangelism today is not of the Finnish kind where entire communities were affected and saloons were emptied and lives
43:58 -  radically changed. Or Paul's evangelism where he comes to a bunch of pagans drinking their beer out of their skulls and hearing his word turn from their idols to serve the living God and to wait for his son who comes from heaven and will save them from the wrath to come.
44:16 -  What was different about that evangelism as against ours? We said that the false prophets did not even know they were false. What was the evidence of that? That they actually expected a God that would answer them. They were absolutely stupefied that no answer was coming. They expected
44:37 -  it to come. So what am I saying by that? That the vilest form of apostasy is when the people who are apostate do not even recognize or see themselves as apostate and think that they are fully in the faith. That's the ultimate apostasy and the real. Do we have the courage even to put the question
45:02 -  is that the condition to which the church is rapidly coming or in fact already is even in its best and most celebrated forms. Well that was like an extra jab. Not only we're not just talking about mainline churches like the Episcopal and the Methodist. God knows that
45:28 -  they're so devoid the Presbyterians and the ordination of lesbians. I mean it's despicable but are we willing to consider that it includes not only that but even those forms of the church that think themselves to be with it and the most celebrated aspects of Christianity today
45:49 -  where this kind of worship is the most celebrated. That there is the apostasy even worse because it's not even recognized as apostasy and so much so that when one comes to confront and to challenge that one is called a troubler of Israel and is shown the back door.
46:13 -  Well these are frightening questions and they are only the questions that the prophetic man would ask because he is so utter toward God that he's not afraid to ask them and to consider what others celebrate and see as the finest expression. He has somehow in the deepest part
46:34 -  of his heart a little tremor of discomfort that though everyone is shouting amen and hallelujah and having a great time and seems to give every external appearance of having arrived there's something in his own prophetic heart that cannot say yay and amen. It is not yet
46:53 -  the authentic thing though it purports to be and appears to be and uses all the right language appropriate to being. Sir are we? Boy don't say anything right now. Don't say anything. Let that sink in. The thing here that we must recognize because our sacrifice will be vain,
47:16 -  our service will be incomplete, God's fire will not fall, the church will remain in its apostasy. What does this symbolically suggest? How many of us have known the frustration of trying to start a campfire with a soggy match? How much more than if every ingredient is saturated,
47:39 -  fused with water. It contradicts nature itself. Why would God require it? Is God showing himself as God and refuting the wisdom and the logic of the world and showing that he's greater? What else can you say? That's true but I don't think it's
48:03 -  exhaustive. There's more. Enormous statement of God's power and ability not only to consume the sacrifice but to consume the altar as well as the water. Even the stones themselves were consumed in that fire. You know what? Ultimately. A moment's respectful silence. Who of us and the best of us
48:27 -  and the most God-loving of us knows him as we ought? Something is being demonstrated before an apostate Israel who have forgotten their God and have turned to other Gods and isn't it interesting that just in these days I picked up a book floating around
48:47 -  here about Babylon. I felt impressed to take it home and I'm reading about Babylonian religion and Marduk and all of these false Gods and by their various names and Goddesses. A panoply of Gods in every household out of which Abraham came from all of the Chaldeans and
49:09 -  very impressive. These are the Gods of this world. I believe that they were the fallen angels and why were they so celebrated and honored and idols made about them before them? Because they did something for their false worshipers.
49:26 -  They gave fertility. They brought conditions. They helped in warfare. They helped in finance. They helped in a certain worldly wisdom. They were benevolent beneficial Gods. If you worship them they'll help you. I mean even today if you want to get rich quick even as a Christian
49:45 -  it'd be amazing what kind of facility you'll find yourself obtaining through the false Gods of this world and evidently by the time of Elijah these religions have had had such sway with Israel that they have displaced their respect for and honoring and acknowledgement and knowledge of
50:07 -  their God and so God in one moment of historic time has got to make a demonstration of such a plentitude of what he is as God as blows to smithereens everything in which Israel has falsely trusted so this is not the least of reasons to demonstrate not only can i consume the sacrifice
50:29 -  but you still constitute that sacrifice in such a way as to um defy it being consumed put every obstacle and obstruction everything that by any earthly reckoning would say that fire could not possibly be ignited and i'll show you who i am not only
50:49 -  will it ignite it will consume not only the sacrifice but the water also and even the stones upon which the sacrifice was set so much am i God and when the people saw it what happened they fell on their jewish faces and cried out the lord he is God the lord he is God what would i have
51:16 -  given to see my mother say that before her visit came to an end for all of her talk about God she had never come to the place where she could say my God is the lord the lord that you have been worshiping celebrating and speaking about and now i see it what was wanting to make that
51:37 -  identification a demonstration by fire something so glorious so um indisputable that she would have to surrender her notions her concepts her attitudes her traditions and cry out to God he is lord and your lord he is God and crawl out of the face
52:07 -  so whatever it was we're not within there's some condition in greeting qualification that we have not yet obtained in keeping with the number 12 and the integrity of God and the fullness that would have made it and he's probably hearing the mocking taunt of others
52:23 -  are saying shouldn't you be doing something hey your brothers are getting wiped out and you're just all by yourself quietly doing nothing what kind of prophet are you and you have to be at that taunt it's one thing the world's reproach but the reproach of God's people and how many
52:42 -  things are we doing either in response to that approach reproach or the wanting to refuse it the anticipation of being reproached that we engineer and perform and establish programs and things of that kind this this divine jealousy for the real thing and the real fire
53:06 -  is the heart of the prophetic call and therefore will enable a man to wait and to wait in reproach and then to be God's agent in the historic moment of God's choosing and to do all these things according to his word and then cry out to God lord if i have done these things according
53:28 -  to your word let your fire fall and then you've done every last thing even pray and does that guarantee then that the fire will fall you've got to be prepared even for the bitter disappointment having done all these things that it does not fall
53:48 -  and that God doesn't explain and you suffer the unspeakable disappointment before the people for whom you most wanted to have God's glory revealed and die without even knowing why it did not turn out as God said it would and that the answer will come in eternity praise God the fire fell but i
54:16 -  i want to end with this thought unless you're prepared for the fire not to fall and bear the inexplicable unanswered disappointment you'll not be the man that God would use that it will fall now that is a creative prophetic word out of my mouth right now
54:37 -  that i don't think i have ever said or ever seen as i'm seeing it now you want to write a little essay on what is the what is the last days for elijah prophet a man who is willing in his obedience to do everything according to his word and bear the unspeakable pain of disappointment
54:58 -  if the fire should not fall and because he's willing to bear that the likelihood is that the fire will but whether it will or whether it will not he will be obedient unto the end even if the failed fire to fall means his being hacked to
55:21 -  death and i want to tell you that the disappointed look of your colleagues is a more painful dying than being hacked to pieces with source that would be easy that would be a better way out out than to have to live with the pain disappointment in the faces of your brothers
55:42 -  and sisters and not able to explain to them how come the fire did not fall you can't explain it because God has not explained it to you you have simply to bear it and the elijah prophet of the last days is a man who will that's the final utter requirement of God to bear the disappointment
56:09 -  of the failed expectancy to bear the shame of it the inexplicableness of it as well as to bear the glory of it if it comes and i'm saying that if you're not willing for the one you'll not be an agent for the other i think that i shall never see a poem as lovely as a tree remember that we
56:32 -  talked about that joyce kilmer i'm remembering the poet's name he wrote a poem about a tree that's been put to music i'll sing it if you're interested one day celebrating the glorious thing that a tree is what shall we say of a prophet that Jesus says that the testimony of Jesus is the
56:52 -  spirit of prophecy so ultimate a thing is it in God's own sight that the restoration of Israel shall not take place except it and elijah first come so lord Jesus my God
57:14 -  i feel like i'm in kindergarten i'm just taking first steps look where are we and the time running out and these these stakes so great and the church in such a pitiful condition is so unaware even of its need and those most celebrating their success
57:31 -  probably the greatest danger of the most serious apostasy and where is there one who will blow the whistle and call a halt and raise up the standard of the thing that is true two that will complete the age and release your own coming and your glory
57:52 -  lord i pray blessing on these tapes that they shall have a circulation going far beyond this little handful of souls around this table that men's hearts shall burn within them in the hearing and the seeing of them that men who are applauding themselves will go down on their faces
58:09 -  as dead who thought that they were anything for God and realized that they are only at a barest beginning that there is so much wanting my God and that somehow everything rests in great premium upon the lonely wilderness prophet and whatever that shall corporately mean for a
58:32 -  remnant like him in the last days an exquisite thing but a costly thing for such a one is not born in a day or made in a day and may you have my God those who are willing who will suffer disappointments suffer inexplicable things suffer agonies of moments of of faith and trust and
58:54 -  though you have spoken who are willing for the pain and the suffering of it the death of it the cross of it to be what must be if your fire is to fall and your glory be revealed lord bring it to pass let your eyes search to and fro over the face of the christian earth
59:16 -  for that one whose heart is perfect and who are with you free to choose to be this and we thank you and give you the praise he was