The Schiavo Case   A Conflict of Life

00:00 -  That God keeps for Himself the prerogative of the revelation of Himself and His Father. No man underlines that, no man, because the whole theme this morning is no man. No man can. God is exclusive, and He guards, jealously, the revelation of Himself.
00:24 -  And He makes it quite plain, quite plain. No man, however religious, however ethical or moral, can earn or obtain a knowledge of Me except that it be revealed. Underlined, revealed. Revealed puts the ball in God's court, because every revelation is from above.
00:47 -  Man cannot procure, he cannot arrest, he cannot appropriate revelation. Is that right? Do you know that for yourself? You can read the Bible, excuse the expression, till you're blue in the face.
01:05 -  And you'll not in any way be rewarded, no matter how diligent you are, except there be a spirit of revelation. And why that spirit is given to some and not to others, and why to some in greater measure and some in less, is another story, another issue that has to do with character, that has to do with the quality of our walk,
01:28 -  that has to do with the earnestness of our inquiry. If we're just reading mechanically and religiously, it'll be without the spirit of revelation. And all you'll have is dry dust.
01:38 -  Revelation is a key, and God holds it, God gives it to whom He will. No man can, no, unless God reveal. So that's the background to this episode that's now going to take place.
01:57 -  And he turned unto his disciples and said, privately, blessed are the eyes which see the things that you see, so I tell you that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which you see and have not seen them, and to hear those things which you hear and have not heard them.
02:14 -  That's true. So prophets and kings are the highest categories in the realm of human achievement. Kings are the stately title in the world, prophets, exalted in their calling,
02:32 -  but those titles do not of themselves compel or obtain revelation of the things that were given to the disciples, of things that they have both seen and heard, that were given as revelation. And behold, a certain lawyer, here's the Jew on the scene, a Pharisaical legalist,
02:56 -  who's well-informed, very ethical, very moral, and he stood up and tempted him. So just how moral is he? Just how ethical is he, who's raising the question not really to obtain sincere information,
03:13 -  but to embarrass or ridicule or denigrate and bring down the one to whom the question is addressed? I'm teaching you how to read the scriptures, because you would of yourself have passed this over. You would of not understood the word tempted.
03:29 -  And why is that important? Because this is exactly the point. Here's a man who is supreme in his religiosity.
03:38 -  He stands in shoulders above all of us together in this room, in terms of knowledge, understanding, moral uprightness, conduct, knowledge of the law, but all of that does not save him from what he is as a man.
03:54 -  And what he is as a man is revealed in why he is addressing Jesus. He's addressing him in order to contradict him, to embarrass him, to find him out, to reveal that he's a fraud. How do you know that, Katz?
04:10 -  Because that's how I'm engaged by my own Jewish kids now. And if you're in earnest in your own witness, you'll have people coming to you, raising questions that are not really questions, they're traps.
04:23 -  And so this man was seeking to trap Jesus. The remarkable thing is, Jesus does not make out that as if he's unaware of what this guy's about. He doesn't at all allude to it.
04:35 -  But he knows what is represented here, and you need to know, because the dialogue and the exchange between them is of enormous significance for us on Resurrection Sunday. And so a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him, saying,
04:53 -  Master, teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus answered him, what's written in the law? How do you read it?
05:06 -  And he answered and said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy strength, with all thy mind, thy neighbors, thyself. And Jesus said to him, you have answered right, this do, and thou shalt live.
05:21 -  So that would give the impression that this guy's tuned in, and Jesus has nothing to say but to offer him, he's affirming that what this man said is right. How do you inherit eternal life?
05:33 -  You do this, you live to a certain law of loving God with all your heart, all your mind, all your soul, and your neighbors, thyself. And Jesus said, this do, and thou shalt live.
05:44 -  You know what I would say? If you can do this, you're really living it. Your doing this does not give you life.
05:55 -  This do, and you shall live. But because you're living, you shall do this. That is to say, no man, Jewish or otherwise, can love God with all his heart,
06:05 -  all his soul, all his mind, and all his strength, let alone his neighbors and self. It's a patent, total, human impossibility. Haven't you found that out there?
06:16 -  That God, the first commandment, floors us. So here's this guy, because he recites it, thinks that he has qualified. But Jesus' answer needs to be weighed.
06:28 -  This do, and thou shalt live. If you can do this, you don't obtain eternal life. If you can do this, you do this because you have eternal life.
06:40 -  Only the life of God, which is the eternal life, will enable you to do this. As somebody said in our fellowship years ago, it takes God to love God. Anything else is just a religious hit and miss.
06:55 -  But the first commandment finds us out. It's total, it's ultimate. It's a requirement that cannot be fulfilled by any man, even a lawyer,
07:05 -  even a Jewish lawyer, because a Jewish lawyer is the epitome, excuse my language, E-P-I-T-O-M-E, of man, of religious man, of ethical man, and moral man. And yet we have already learned he's a wise guy, he's out to contradict Jesus,
07:24 -  and Jesus lets him recite what is correct. But live to recite it does not make you correct. This do and thou shalt live.
07:36 -  But he willing to justify himself said unto Jesus, and who is my neighbor? Because you love God as yourself, with all your heart, and your neighbor as yourself. So here's this guy still trying to make Jesus, because it says willing to justify himself.
07:55 -  He's still not asking sincere questions. He's asking questions to vindicate himself, and make him come out smelling like a rose, and making Jesus to look like a fool.
08:06 -  But the Lord is not easily trapped. And so then Jesus gives the long story about that man who has encountered thieves, and is left half dead, beaten, and cut up, and by the side of the road,
08:21 -  and the priest passes by the other side, and another righteous man, but a Samaritan, a half-breed, look the Samaritan saw it, a half-breed mixed Jewish and Babylonian
08:38 -  that they brought in to fill in that area. He stops, and he takes care of this man, he has mercy. And verse 37, after fixing it up and bringing it to an inn,
08:52 -  and paying the innkeeper to care for him, if there's anything that's over that expense, I'll pay you in full on my way back. And Jesus said in verse 37, he that showed mercy to him is your neighbor.
09:07 -  Then said Jesus to him, go and do thou likewise. That doing you shall live, go and do that likewise. If you can show mercy to a man for whom there's no profit in it for you,
09:22 -  where you would by every instinct walk around him rather than stop for him, if you can do that, that's your neighbor, and you're fulfilling the commandment to love God with all your heart
09:33 -  and your neighbor as yourself. Just do, and you show mercy. Well, to show mercy is to show God, for God is mercy.
09:44 -  And when Moses said, show me your glory, God hid him in the cleft of a rock and showed him only his rear parts, and it says that the chesed, the tenderkindness, the mercy of God, passed before him.
10:00 -  And so this is my name. You ask for my glory? This is me, my mercy. And when Jews will obtain that mercy in the last days,
10:09 -  they will have obtained God. And our mandate is to make that mercy available that they might obtain it, that we will receive mercy, might extend mercy.
10:21 -  To receive mercy and to extend mercy is to receive God and to extend God in his essential character and attribute, which is full of compassion, which will not circumvent,
10:32 -  will not go around, will not look the other way, will attend to the person in need at one's own expense or worse, maybe in one's own life, that's mercy.
10:43 -  That's what the Lord himself expressed at the cross, his own life, in mercy towards sinners, which we are. By not passing us by, he didn't even have to come down from heaven.
10:55 -  He could have stayed there with the Father and continue to enjoy an exalted relationship, but he came down and into our situation because we're at the side of the road, beat up and stopped for us
11:11 -  and gave us not just wine and oil in our wounds, but his own life. So mercy is God. And that's why he could say to this wise guy,
11:21 -  yes, if you show mercy, that's your neighbor, this is where you shall live. And the guy walks away not realizing that he has been trapped.
11:33 -  He sought to be the wise guy, but the Lord has trapped him to show, if we understand the text right, that you cannot do the law. You cannot love God.
11:44 -  You cannot love your neighbor as yourself. If you can do it, you do it only because God, because of the resurrection enablement,
11:52 -  because of the power of the life. Otherwise, humanly, we're incapacitated. We're nice guys maybe under ordinary conditions,
12:01 -  but a little bit of strain and that's the end of it. So I remember in community, when we first got started, we used to take communion like once a month, once a week.
12:14 -  And then after a while, when our good guy stuff ran out and we could not be nice to each other anymore, because that natural ability to be nice was exhausted.
12:25 -  And living together with the same people day in and day out under trying circumstances in the severe northern Minnesota weather revealed that your humanity could only go so far.
12:37 -  We began to take communion day in and day out, you know why? Because we naively believed that eating and drinking of his body and blood gave us the substance of his spirit and his life,
12:49 -  that we could be true neighbors, that we could be kind, that we could be gracious. I'm very occupied with this lady, Mrs. Schiavo, is that her name?
13:03 -  And the attempts to keep her alive. And I wrote a little something yesterday, I want to read. You may disagree with this and it may offend you,
13:19 -  but I tell you that I have been chafed in my inner man from the very beginning of this whole episode about keeping this woman alive. I'm not with the evangelicals and the Catholics
13:34 -  who have come together in a new union, weeping and pleading outside of her hospital or whatever it was, that God might answer and extend life.
13:49 -  So here's what I wrote. Thinking aloud on the Schiavo case, like you have been keeping abreast of all the Fuhrer
13:58 -  over the woman in this tragic condition, kept alive these 12 years through medical technology. From the very beginning of the Fuhrer to preserve her vegetative existence,
14:11 -  I wonder why my gut reaction was not at all in sympathy with the evangelical Christianity's desperation to perpetuate that condition in the name of life.
14:24 -  As if the issue of preserving her is the issue of life, though the doctors have understood and determined many times over these 12 years, she is totally brain dead.
14:34 -  She's incapable of any response, any reaction, any awareness, and that the force of feeding has only kept her physically going, but in any sense in which we would define life, she's dead.
14:52 -  Why don't they allow her the dignity of death, I suppose? Why is it so desirable and perpetuated this minimal existence next to the glory of eternally abiding with the Lord in heaven?
15:04 -  Paul, the definitive spokesman of apostolic faith, himself cried out, to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. Why don't we just with joy receive the graduation
15:16 -  from this earthly life to the heavenly? After all, what is this earthly life? What a preparation for the eternal life.
15:23 -  So when God gives us the gift of ascending into that life, we would receive it with grace and not perpetuate ourselves down here at the earth as if there is no afterlife, as if there's nothing transcendent beyond this life.
15:40 -  To be honest, so the Catholic evangelical Protestant camp do not seem to believe this and have campaigned for federal and judicial intervention at the highest levels,
15:52 -  controverting if not threatening the deepest tradition and safeguards of our political system. I don't know if you can understand that, but when they invoke Congress to pass a special law for an individual,
16:06 -  when they nullify the determination to which the state of Florida had already come by exercising federal power or bringing the case before a federal court, when the state courts have already made a decision,
16:19 -  it threatens the whole issue of the federal system of the sovereignty of states in a voluntary relatedness in a union by allowing the central and federal government to eclipse and overpower
16:35 -  and nullify the local state government. That may not seem to you now a great issue, but I tell you what,
16:43 -  there may be a time ahead where that will be the very means by which dictatorship can be brought into this country by the federal government at its head taking over and eclipsing the sovereignty of states.
16:57 -  But the issue is perpetuating a life when under normal and natural circumstances that life would have passed away long before.
17:07 -  She's been perpetuated, kept by means of the same kind that the Pope himself is now having his life co-ordinated. So this is out of today's paper.
17:21 -  He has an incision in his throat and respirators that keep him alive and going. But if you can see this picture, he looks more dead than alive. And in the first Easter Sunday in the history of his office,
17:36 -  he was not only unable to participate, he was unable even to give a greeting, unable even to pray. All he could do was be propped up by his window
17:46 -  and hold this Easter symbol in the window so that thousands out there in the courtyard of St. Peter's could rejoice. There's a remarkable analogy of perpetuating the life of the Pope,
18:03 -  perpetuating the life of this woman. But I'm raising a greater question. What is life?
18:10 -  And what is being perpetuated by whatever means? So this crisis, occasioned by this tragic controversy, ought the stars to consider what indeed life is,
18:25 -  what is its meaning and purpose, and what campaigning, what neurologists who have examined this lady for 12 years have concluded in describing her condition as vegetative and totally brain dead.
18:40 -  What solace, I'm forced to ask, is the pleasure of stroking and doting her mother or her parents over the deceptive warmth of an otherwise dead person, keeping her from the dignity of death and the far greater consolation of eternal life.
18:56 -  See, this whole issue ought to raise the question nationally and internationally, what is life? What is being affected? What is being preserved? Why are we so afraid of death?
19:10 -  Why isn't death looked upon as it is given us to understand it biblically, as a gate to resurrection and eternal life? Could it be that they inwardly know that she's not in that relationship
19:24 -  and that there's no assurance of an eternal life? And for that reason, there's a greater emphasis to perpetuate her natural earthly existence. But if that's the case, then that points out some deficiency in Catholicism itself.
19:40 -  This is a Catholic family and the priests are there, but do they minister the issues that have to do with salvation and the assurance that we have life by the Spirit and therefore that is a token
19:55 -  and what do they call it, the first fruits of the greater life that is yet to come? That understandably natural proclivity seems to betray a faith to believe for that afterlife and a defective Catholicism that has not persuaded its adherents
20:15 -  that they can confidently expect that greater reality, which that reality is greater than any other reality, let alone the reality of the nearest level of existence to which this lady is tragically reduced.
20:31 -  Then I write, how many today are to be found among the living dead? You don't have to be on your back with a feeding tube. There are people who are walking and are able to feed themselves
20:43 -  who are not much more alive than this lady. It's incumbent for us to ask, what is life? Otherwise we have populations that are more dead than alive and are among the walking dead
21:00 -  and we need to see that because it has everything to do with our witness and how we challenge people in that condition. That is, they have no spiritual life, purpose or meaning,
21:13 -  whose existence is the mere sustaining of the bodily life and what measure of its carnal enjoyment their station in life affords. It's tragic that the Lord has suffered and died and has been risen
21:29 -  in order to give to mankind not only the gift of forgiveness from sin, but also the gift of life and for people to live in ignorance of that and the neglect of that is a kind of trampling on the grace of God
21:53 -  and the Church allows multitudes to exist at that level without challenging them about the issue of life. The scripture says, he who hath the Son hath life
22:07 -  and he who hath not the Son hath not life and the wrath of God abides upon him. Do we believe that? On Resurrection Sunday morning that celebrates the life of God which is risen,
22:22 -  do we believe that? That he who hath not the Son hath not life. And the whole purpose, as I'm going to quote here,
22:32 -  when Paul went to Athens and challenged the philosophers who are every day looking for some new thing, what does it say to them? God has by one blood made all nations of men
22:45 -  and established their territories and their boundaries that they might seek after God if happy they may be found with him. That the whole purpose of this life and this existence is to find and be found of God.
22:58 -  That you might obtain life and have it eternally. But I think that the Church either has not understood or has forgotten this reality even for itself,
23:12 -  let alone like Paul to commend it to others of what the issue of this life is. Because if that's not the issue of life, then the issue of life is merchandise, comfort, pleasure, vacations, security.
23:29 -  And the deceiver who is the prince of this world wants to keep men from any consideration of that which is eternal and fix them to be preoccupied with the things that are upon the earth.
23:43 -  That has to do with what is natural, what is physical, as if that is the issue for which we have the privilege of existing. Paul summarizing to those who spent their time in nothing else but either to tell you here
23:59 -  some new thing, the philosophers, what the whole purpose of our human existence is. How many of us even as believing Christians understand or believe that statement? That the whole purpose of life is to seek after God if happy we may be found with him.
24:15 -  You know what we would be accused of? That was, you're back in the Middle Ages, you're back in the Dark Ages. You've defined everything as one purpose, finding God.
24:26 -  Don't you understand that there are many purposes and many opportunities in life and we were to seek this and that. Paul says no, there's one.
24:34 -  The God who created and gave of all men one blood and established the bounds of the habitations was for this purpose. Do we believe Paul or do we believe the wisdom of this age and the world and its ways?
24:49 -  That diverts and distracts people into thinking that the purpose of the life of success, careers, physical attainment, security, pleasure, success, etc. Paul would say that's all deception.
25:03 -  That's all calculated to keep you from the one consideration that is reconsideration, the issue of life. Because if you don't obtain that life now on this earth and in this life,
25:17 -  on this earth and in this lifetime, you'll not have it eternally. That's why Jesus would say, go and do this. Yeah, go and love the Lord together and you'll live.
25:28 -  What he's really saying is you'll not do this except you live. You'll not do this except that your life is the life of God. It's not a human possibility.
25:37 -  You'll not have mercy on a stranger unless it's the life of God because the life of God is mercy. So there is a moral and transcendent question here of an ultimate kind from which the Gods of this age have blinded men.
25:55 -  It's a good question to ask whether they have blinded the church. Far better for evangelicals to encourage to the most holy faith those who are fearful and live their lives by spoonfuls.
26:08 -  To the victorious proclamation of Paul, especially on Easter Sunday morning, death where is thy sting and grave where is thy record, where is thy terror. That's in 1 Corinthians 15.
26:21 -  There's a real flight from reality that I think is indicated in the people who are crying outside of her hospital with loud tears and crying out to God for some miracle after 12 years of that condition
26:41 -  and are not willing to allow that lady to pass on to the reward of life, to the purpose of life or to really take up the issue that if she's been denied that knowledge that something is gravely wrong with the Christianity which she has been raised.
26:59 -  And that needs to be confronted because religions are going to their eternal death in ignorance because the issue of salvation and the life of God has never been brought to them. But instead, Protestants and Catholics are outside of this hospital room
27:14 -  wailing and tearing on which reminds me very much of Jesus at the tomb of Lazarus. Have you guys ever understood, I tell you it's a double header, in John 11 where it says Jesus again groaning in himself came to the tomb
27:35 -  because in verse 37 of chapter 11 of John some of them said, could not this man who opened the eyes of the blind have kept this man from dying? Here's the same sense by Jews then as by Catholics and Protestants now
27:53 -  to keep this man from dying, as if dying is some kind of ultimate tragedy. Yes, Jesus could have kept him from dying but there's a much greater question than preserving his earthly existence.
28:07 -  The greater question was demonstrating that I am the resurrection and the life and if you believe in me you shall never die, you'll never see death. To believe is to obtain and that this was not a stranger but a friend whom he loved
28:26 -  and he allowed to languish unto death, well yes he could have come earlier, it says he remained two days longer where he was. Just to allow his friend to die without explanation, who knew that Jesus had saved others,
28:41 -  surely he would come to me, he loves me, no he didn't come. He allowed his friend to languish unto death and for his sisters both Martha and Mary, the one who was spiritual, the one who was carnal, both said the same thing
28:54 -  when he came with reproach, if you had been here my brother would not have died as if the issue of preserving his life was the issue and so he groaned. Have you understood why he groaned?
29:08 -  And then the shortest verse in the entire Bible is in John 11, two words, Jesus wept. He wept when he saw people weeping, so they, and he said that didn't I say that you would believe you would see the glory of God, the glory of God is more than the perpetuation of physical life,
29:30 -  physical existence, they took away the stone from where the dead man was living and Jesus cried out, Lazarus came forth and he did, and he who had died came out bound hand and foot with grave clothes, his face was wrapped with the cloth,
29:50 -  Jesus said to them, loose him and let him go. Verse 35, why? Because the people were weeping, he wept over their weeping, he wept because they were not weeping lightly, because it showed where their values lay
30:13 -  in the same way as this man who approached him to contradict him and to trick him and to vindicate himself, so also this people showed where they are by bawling and carrying on like these people over the issue of the perpetuation of mere animal biological existence.
30:35 -  When the issue of life is much greater and they're not crying for that life, they're crying for the perpetuation of the human and the natural life, so there's a great unreality that's perpetuated even in keeping the pulp alive,
30:53 -  a device in his throat, a thing that enables him to breathe, though he has Parkinson's disease where you can't expire and breathe freely and clear and therefore the congestion builds up and the person ordinarily will die of pneumonia and things like that,
31:15 -  but again, why keep the man going and prop him up in a window and put him before TV cameras that the worshippers below can see that he's there observing through a TV set the Easter proceedings but cannot participate, cannot lead, cannot even pray.
31:34 -  Can he in that condition oversee the responsibility of the Catholic Church? Why doesn't he designate someone to succeed or why don't they begin to, why keep this thing going to the last possible moment?
31:50 -  It's a kind of unreality and in the same paper today is the Jackson trial, so here I'm looking at another spectacle, another attempt by technology like science and surgery to change a man's complexion, change his appearance
32:12 -  and so because he has millions if not billions he can have a little magical place in the desert that's called Neverland and there he can read his pornography and entertain boys in bed and carry on an unreality that is not life.
32:30 -  The same thing that has to do with perpetuating a pope and perpetuating a woman and robbing her of the dignity of death and the grace of a life after death is the same kind of flight from reality.
32:45 -  It's denial and a man because he can afford it changes what is made in God's image he doesn't like God's handiwork the complexion is too dark the features are too negroid and so he'll make himself over in his own image
33:04 -  he doesn't like reality so he'll create a place called Neverland and it'll have toys and dolls and all kinds of deceptive things that creates an aura of a never never existence that's not real.
33:20 -  People drove great lengths to be at the place where this lady is being preserved and exaggerating her condition that her mother when came out told the religious authorities please keep the people quiet from crying out
33:41 -  like those that were around the tomb of Lazarus and exaggerating her condition so as to appeal for human sentiment and support at that level.
33:54 -  Well, you can pray for me hard-hearted man that I am but I see sentiment as death. Sentiment that wants to keep something alive
34:09 -  like a man wanting to keep an image of himself that he can afford to obtain by being able to pay those who can graft his skin change his nose and so on and so forth and pay for the remarkable fantasy land
34:22 -  in which he lives his life and is now catching up with him in unreality. Remember when Jimmy Baker was apprehended from the program that what was it called? PPL
34:37 -  that when they apprehended him and came in he was in a fetal position under the couch. Fetal is to go back to prenatal life.
34:48 -  He lived in such an unreality. I know it because he once gave me a thousand dollars. I was a guest on this program. My daughter was with me.
34:57 -  Someone said you are totally out of place. You stuck out like a conspicuous sort of phone. You did not fit. It's true.
35:05 -  He lived in such a la la land. Such a make believe. And his wife with the eyelashes and the makeup.
35:12 -  When that thing collapsed and the whole reality of the world finally set in the man collapsed psychologically, mentally, emotionally.
35:22 -  They found him under the couch curdled up in a fetal position like he went going back into the womb.
35:30 -  Well praise God that in the course of his confinement in prison and washing toilets he came to reality.
35:38 -  And he is a much better and greater man now than he ever was in his nonsense in the days of reality. That's my resurrection message.
35:50 -  The issue of life, dear Saints is the issue of resurrection life and not mere perpetuation
35:58 -  of what is natural and human. What is natural and human is only the enablement and grace of God
36:05 -  to bring us to a place of choice and decision of believing and calling upon the name of the Lord that we might receive life.
36:13 -  And that life is eternal. But that life that is eternal is also the same life that enables us to love God with all our hearts
36:21 -  all our soul, all our mind and all our strength. It's the same life that enables us to have mercy on a stranger at cost to ourselves.
36:32 -  It's totally unnatural to stop. Even the priest could not do it and the Pharisee could not do it
36:39 -  but a Samaritan could do it because evidently there was something of God in that man that was mercy that required to be expressed.
36:52 -  Anybody getting choked here? Imitated? Maybe, I don't know,
36:58 -  on what side of the resurrection are you? I'll tell you what. Jesus was and is a resurrection in life
37:07 -  and he roamed and he wept. It was not the same weeping as the people around him
37:15 -  weeping at the tomb. Oh, Lazarus, why couldn't God have a lot of... Why did you come early and save those
37:21 -  you could have saved them? He wept at their weeping not with their weeping.
37:27 -  The life of God in him was opposed to this kind of sentimentality that fixes itself at the minimal human level
37:38 -  and misses the issue of life itself which is eternal, which is God. You get the point?
37:46 -  Yes. Okay. Paul knew that life, lived by that life
37:52 -  and that's what made Paul, Paul. Paul is not an example of an exemplary Jew who has unusual ability, courage and knowledge.
38:02 -  The issue of Paul is the issue of resurrection. He counted all things as done that he might win Christ and know him
38:11 -  in the fellowship of his resurrection and his death. And that's why we have the continuation of the genius of Jesus in Paul.
38:21 -  Paul did not speak or do anything other than Jesus would have had he continued in his own body. He lived by the life of the Lord.
38:29 -  And why is that? Because he is the foundational apostle for the Church. He's not just going to teach us
38:37 -  but to give us an example of how we ourselves ought to live by the resurrection life. And I'll tell you what,
38:46 -  if there's no resurrection I'm most to be pitied because on April 5th
38:51 -  I'm commencing a seven week trip to seven countries with 17 flights. Not just to go sightseeing
38:58 -  but where life and death and eternity are at stake every time I open my mouth in Singapore,
39:07 -  Friday, Saturday and Sunday, two services on Sunday to a significant Chinese congregation
39:14 -  and the messages of which will go out to China and Asia. This is not just bringing in a nice biblical message. It's got to be the word of the Lord
39:25 -  which I'll not have until I open my mouth. Although I have a sense already God wants to speak this.
39:32 -  He wants to speak the cross not to some run down fellowship like Lex but to a successful Church
39:39 -  whose worship and praise is impressive. And yet I'm going to say to them it's not based on the cross.
39:46 -  You guys have not yet like most Christians apprehended the issue of the cross. Because I was there my last time
39:54 -  and spoke the messages on Israel which they're expecting now also. But how shall they extend mercy to Jews
40:02 -  that they might obtain mercy unless they have received mercy? Unless they have the life of God as mercy
40:10 -  to sinners who are deserving of nothing from God but the grace which is given, which is his life.
40:17 -  His mercy is his life. And unless they have his life they'll have nothing to extend
40:22 -  to Jews in their crisis. However well meaning their intention they will collapse.
40:27 -  They'll pass by these Jews on the side of the road who've been beat to a pulp and go around them as the priest did
40:34 -  and as the Pharisee did. They'll not stop. They have nothing to give.
40:39 -  Because mercy is not a firm or a category. It's a reality which is the life of God.
40:46 -  There's only one way that a program of this kind can be performed. It's in the power of his life.
40:53 -  The wisdom of his life. The character of his life. The anointing of his life.
40:58 -  Or it is only merely religious and human, ceremonial and deserves to be forgotten. The issue of God,
41:08 -  the issue of service, the issue of worship, the issue of fellowship is resurrection.
41:14 -  We can be amiable and courteous but that's not true Christian fellowship. True fellowship requires the life of God
41:23 -  because only his patience, only his wisdom, only his love can suffice.
41:29 -  Sunday morning, resurrection Easter. We need to bow before the Lord and even ask for forgiveness
41:36 -  for falling short of the glory of God. That's why Jesus said, didn't I say that if you would be patient,
41:46 -  you would see the glory of God? The resurrection of God is the glory of God. And we have lived beneath that glory.
41:54 -  We have only been religious. We have only been correct. But if we have fallen short of the life,
42:00 -  we have fallen short of the glory. So you acknowledge that and repent of getting by
42:08 -  on your own limited natural resources. You'll not receive it. It's a gift that comes with repentance.
42:18 -  But if you want to get by humanly because your pride is involved and you want to show yourself sufficient,
42:26 -  God will allow you. But in the day of eternity you'll be in Paris.
42:32 -  He'll show you then you've lived an entire life beneath the glory because you insisted in living it humanly
42:40 -  rather than on the basis of my life. That's why Paul said, I die daily. It's death that works in me and life in you.
42:49 -  Maybe that's why I had to live so early this morning. Not just to be instructed, but to come half dead.
42:55 -  So that if there's any value, anything that's natural going forth, not only for you, but through the tape
43:02 -  over this issue, it will have to be by the life of God. Resurrection is more than a doctrine.
43:11 -  It's the ultimate reality of God. And if there were no resurrection, there'd be no salvation.
43:19 -  That's why Paul said in 1 Corinthians, why do you say that there's no resurrection? Don't you know that
43:26 -  if there were no resurrection you'd still be in your sins? Why does he say that?
43:31 -  Because the resurrection is the evidence that the father has received the sacrifice or he would not have raised Jesus.
43:39 -  The raising of Jesus from the dead is the statement of the father's approval of the sinless lamb of God
43:46 -  slain from the foundations of the world. If Jesus had not been raised, if those women on Sunday morning
43:53 -  had come in and found him in the grave, we would all of us be dead ducks. There'd be no salvation.
43:59 -  His resurrection is the statement of the approval of the sacrifice by which our atonement has been obtained.
44:08 -  Having ascended on high being raised, he poured out from the throne of heaven the promise of the fathers
44:15 -  so that the 120 in the upper room receive the life of God. And that life was so powerful
44:22 -  and so life-changing that their character was changed and their activity,
44:26 -  that John and Peter, who had been competitive, where Peter said the last thing,
44:30 -  and what shall this man do? Remember that? Speaking about John,
44:34 -  there's something natural and competitive even in his religious nature. But after the baptism with the Holy Spirit,
44:42 -  which is the life of the resurrection from the throne, these two men are together at the gate beautiful
44:50 -  and their man-born lame fixing his eyes on them, heard Peter say,
44:56 -  silver and gold have been done, but that which we have we're giving in to stick up your bed of bars.
45:00 -  And he gets up, he's healed, fixing his eyes on them. They had come into a new relationship
45:07 -  that was heavenly because they both had received what was poured out from heaven
45:12 -  as they had received what was poured out on earth. The life of the Lord in death that was received by the Father
45:21 -  to ascend, to raise Jesus in the power of God, not just to resuscitate Jesus,
45:28 -  but to give him a new quality of life altogether. Resurrection of life is not the mere perpetuation of natural life.
45:37 -  It is a newness of life. Remember that? If we're crucified and buried with him,
45:42 -  we're raised also unto a newness of life, not henceforth anymore to live unto ourselves, but unto God,
45:50 -  because that's the nature of that life, is to live unto God and follow God. He's ever before you.
45:56 -  He's in every thought and every consideration. And when that happens, you don't get tired away with this.
46:02 -  You're beyond the issue of human sympathy. You weep and groan as the Lord did for other reasons,
46:11 -  because your life is not your own. Your thoughts are not your own. Your response is not your own.
46:17 -  It's Christ living in you, the hope of glory. So,
46:27 -  in 1 Corinthians 15, I have already quoted verse 19. If for this life only that Christ has given us hope,
46:39 -  we are all men most to be pitied. And he goes on to a whole dissertation on resurrection and that what is perishable
46:48 -  and corruption cannot inherit the kingdom. In verse 42, so it is with the resurrection of the dead
46:55 -  where the stone in the earth as a perishable thing is raised imperishable, stone and humiliation is raised in glory.
47:03 -  This dear lady laying in that hospice or wherever she is, is a place of humiliation.
47:11 -  She cannot respond. She cannot hear. She cannot answer.
47:16 -  They even in this article say that they tried to prompt some response from her and the doctors dismissed it as not at all a reaction,
47:25 -  but something that was compelled. Stone in humiliation is raised in glory. Stone in weakness is raised in power.
47:36 -  Stone as an animal natural body is raised as a spiritual body. And then he says in verse 50, what I mean, my brothers, is this.
47:44 -  The flesh and blood can never possess the kingdom of God. That's true on this earth and it's true in heaven. The perishable cannot possess in what down there.
47:56 -  We must be close with immortality. In 2 Corinthians 5.15 it says, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves,
48:08 -  but unto him which died for them and rose again. It's distracting that there's a reason why people shrink from the issue of resurrection.
48:18 -  Because the issue of resurrection is that henceforth you should not live unto yourself before yourself, but unto him who died for you and rose again.
48:29 -  To come into resurrection life is to forfeit your natural, human propensity and interest and values. It's changed.
48:40 -  You live no longer for yourself but for him, not by yourself but unto him and through him. That's how Paul ends Romans 11.
48:50 -  For other men through him and through him are all things to whom be glory forever. Maybe there's an instinctive reason why people want to keep
49:00 -  the natural thing going and want to shrink from the prospect of resurrection because they don't want to give up the ghost.
49:08 -  They don't want to give up the natural life and the natural purposes, natural ambition, natural delights, even religiously.
49:17 -  In Revelation 13, just as the Pope is being kind of artificially kept alive, there is a figure derived as a beast who is slain and yet speaks.
49:31 -  And people worship that beast. What it is is the continuation of this same kind of thing. It's like a ventriloquist and a dummy.
49:43 -  This thing that was slain is yet able to speak and command the worship of men and their allegiance. Because in the last analysis, the same phenomenon comes to a head.
49:55 -  It's like the Pope being propped up that people can see him at his window. This figure will be propped up in the last days
50:04 -  and somehow a voice will speak through it, but it will not be his own. He's slain. He's been wounded unto death
50:13 -  and yet is an object of worship and power. The same thing was true for this Rabbi Schneerson of the Jews in Brooklyn who refused to allow that man to die
50:27 -  and tried to get the confession out of him When he was in a coma in his last year of life, he could not even speak and they were trying to get him to acknowledge
50:37 -  that he was the Messiah and they could jab him with needles and if he blinked, they said, oh, see, that's it. He's acknowledging it.
50:46 -  And even now they're waiting for his resurrection and that his spirit somehow is with them. They wanted so much to believe in the flesh and blood man
50:58 -  and not the one whom the Lord, in fact, has raised from the dead. So there's something in man that will even be satisfied with a dummy if it could be made somehow to speak and act,
51:12 -  that it could be the object of worship rather than the Lord himself who is alone, the true object of worship.
51:19 -  And so right to the end in Revelation 13, we see one who was slain and speaks. The Antichrist with a deadly wound being propped up as a false hope,
51:34 -  a false resurrection established by what is it, by satanic power and devices to celebrate and for men to hope in what is in man.
51:46 -  For in man is no good thing at all. He can't even know God except to be revealed to him. No man knows the Father but the Son
51:56 -  and he to whom soever the Son will reveal them. You know the commandments? Love the Lord, thank the Lord God also.
52:04 -  And never to self, go and do it and you shall live because except you live you can't do it. Can you see that?
52:12 -  God has set the stage to utter human futility and hopelessness and nowhere is that contradiction more embarrassing than in the Church that has not surrendered to God's statement
52:27 -  and has not realized the gift that we're celebrating resurrection morning and therefore the world has stolen it from us with Easter eggs and chocolate bunnies and or candies and all that stuff
52:39 -  because we ourselves have not deeply understood the glory of resurrection that is a grace to us if we would live by that life to receive it and consistently to walk in it
52:52 -  even though it would mean for us to die daily and except we will we have nothing to offer the Jew. We will be found out, revealed.
53:03 -  Our human sympathy will ever wait. Our fear will captivate us. We will not want to extend us.
53:11 -  We'll have no mercy to extend. They'll perish. We'll not stop for them in the way because we have not believed.
53:20 -  So Lord, precious God on high, if you sorrowed at the tomb of Lazarus where people were weeping for the wrong reasons, what are you doing now?
53:35 -  You're seeing this phenomenal reaction in America that brings Catholics and Protestants together in agreement outside this lady's room to wail and to weep
53:48 -  and send their little ten-year-old kids in with a cup of water knowing that there's no way that she can be allowed to receive it. We're wailing for the wrong reasons Lord.
53:57 -  What we ought to be weeping for is the neglect of what you have obtained for us at so great a cost and that we consistently live beneath it, have not learned to appropriate it and are content to live out our lives
54:14 -  humanly, religiously, though you say, man cannot. So Lord, grant us the revelation of the reality of your life and save us, my God, from the terrible spectacle of a man propped up by a window
54:36 -  who can't even bring an Easter greeting and a character who has made himself in his own image and has descended into pornography
54:46 -  and the grousing with boys in his own bed and the whole shameful thing will collapse because he seeks to be a God unto himself, to create himself,
55:02 -  to create his own reality, which is unreality. So Lord, instruct us. May we be champions for reality in that great reality
55:12 -  which is the power of your life that has overcome death. We thank you and give you praise for the privilege of living through and for you. In Jesus' name, Amen.