The Least of These My Brethren 1 of 2

00:00 -  So, Lord, I'm asking that what you've given me to share will have much to commend it also, knowing that this is the first time that you've ever had me to take a whole speaking occasion to express things that pertain to Jews as it affects Christian understanding.
00:24 -  And so I'm asking, Lord, under special grace for this, that you'll open our inner ear and our heart and do with this what you will. We thank you for the privileged occasion to be one of the speakers, Lord, in these days,
00:40 -  and ask you now, being the Lord over all, to take charge and possession of this mouth and personality, to unburden and express your own great heart. We give you the praise and the glory and the unafford in Jesus' name.
00:56 -  And God's people said, Amen. Are you sure you're hearing everything? Okay.
01:02 -  I'm a man who's hard of hearing and was a high school teacher long enough to be sure that the room was well ventilated, especially after lunch. So I want to make sure that the conditions are conducive to hearing this statement.
01:22 -  And the first thing that I want to say is that anti-Semitism, everybody know what that word means, has come upon the stage of history now full-blah. If you're reading anything, you know that the Jewish community is panic-stricken because
01:43 -  of the remarkable outburst of anti-Semitic attacks of a kind that have not been experienced since the Middle Ages, and coming with such fury from places in the world where Jews have been up till now befriended, and where nations have had an unusual sympathy for Israel.
02:05 -  In those same nations now, the stevedores, the workers in the waterfront who unload vessels are refusing to unload Israeli cargo ships, and German businessmen who have contracts with Israelis are canceling them.
02:21 -  There's already an economic repercussion of significance to the backlash of anti-Jewish, anti-Israel feeling that has been provoked, of course, by the unhappy events taking place in Israel, at which we are only a beginning.
02:41 -  So not only are these anti-Semitic episodes increasing geometrically, a 600% increase in France in one year. France has the largest Jewish community on the European continent, exceeded only by the
02:56 -  Muslims in that same nation, who represent twice the amount of Jews, and are now openly and brazenly attacking them. There have been synagogue burnings, and the Jewish community has appealed to French government
03:12 -  for defense, protection, and they have received the answer that Jews are now going to hear everywhere in the world. We are unable to protect you.
03:21 -  So if I didn't understand before how it is that Jews will be uprooted in countries whose governments and societies are not necessarily hostile to Jews, but have within them volatile, vicious, suicidal elements bent on Jewish destruction and annihilation, I see now the
03:41 -  pattern that will take place everywhere. I'm only waiting the report of the first suicide bombing in New York, which I know is imminent and must come, and perhaps the Lord sending me to New York is in keeping with the timing
03:56 -  of this escalated drama of the threat to Jewish life worldwide. There have already been trials in Canada of those who deny that the Holocaust has ever taken place, and so there are pockets of anti-Semitism of one kind or another to be found everywhere,
04:18 -  and increasingly in places of polite society, not just the scum and the shaved head characters, but university professors, college campuses, journalists, an ambassador to England at a dinner party called Israel, I can't even use the language, a certain kind of nation
04:44 -  that hardly made the people around the table blink. They were either in such agreement or such a remark has now become so commonplace that they did not even look up, but it came to the attention of the Jewish community and
04:58 -  caused a howl. So here's my observation, dear saints, as 37, 38 years as a believer, that anti-Semitism is intrinsic to every Gentile.
05:11 -  If you're a Gentile, by the very nature of being a Gentile, you are susceptible or there is a positional anti-Semitism latent somewhere in your person. It needs only to be fanned or for a spark to ignite it or factors to be conducive to
05:31 -  it to bring an expression through you or in you that will astonish you. You never thought that you could be capable. I'm speaking about Gentiles and I'm exempting Gentile Christians, but for them the issue
05:49 -  of what kind, unless they are of the deepest spirit kind in affinity with God and his heart, they also will be equally susceptible. So I want to just examine, these are little notes that I've sketched since I've come
06:06 -  here, as even on the way the Lord is beginning to stir my foot in this direction to take up a topic of this kind and to give a whole speaking occasion to it, that there's something about the way reality is constituted that makes the Gentile especially susceptible to
06:29 -  this anti-Semitism. And by the way, the forms that it is taking now in the world are the kind that go back to the Middle Ages itself, that Jews thought that they would never hear again, let alone
06:41 -  that they would hear these charges from such civilized nations as France, Germany and England, where leading Jewish spokesmen in each of these nations has warned the Jewish community therein to learn another language and pack their bags and be prepared to move.
07:01 -  This is the pattern of Jewish life historically, just when we thought we were being accepted, just when we found a place of seeming security and even the prospect of affluence, in that very moment something arises that threatens again, not only our safety but our very existence.
07:22 -  And so the forms of anti-Semitism are that Jews are using the blood of Gentile children to make their matzah, their unleavened bread and other ritual uses for which Gentile blood is employed.
07:37 -  Can you believe that anyone in the 21st century can believe such horrific old wives' tales and feudal and medieval myths as that? And yet these are the things that are being expressed, not at the gutter level but even
07:54 -  at the university campus level. Well, there's something about Jewish exclusiveness that excites Gentile envy or suspicion. Whether real or imagined, something about Jewish success, cultural, economic, gives
08:17 -  an impression of a superiority to which Gentiles can rightly be envious or resentful. It's an unusual Gentile who is not moved to envy or resentment by the evidence of a Jewish success intellectually or culturally, socially.
08:36 -  By the way, of all of the Nobel Prizes and awards in the world for science, literature, music, culture, the arts, Jews have classically and historically won a proportion of these rewards greatly out of the number that they represent in the population.
09:02 -  There is something about the Jewish emphasis on intellect and success that will move a Gentile who observes it to a certain kind of irritation or resentment or envy, and it's just the way the cookie crumbles.
09:19 -  It's just the nature of things. Jews, even in their unbelief and in their apostasy, even in their secular makeup, which represents most Jews, depict for Gentiles a sense of God, of an Old Testament kind of
09:40 -  wrath and of judgment that is somehow to be feared. If they know a little bit about the Bible, in the way in which God used his Jewish people to excise and to bring judgment on the Canaanite peoples in the lands that they subsequently
09:57 -  occupied, something of a residue of that strikes a note of fear about Jews in Gentile hearts that are unenlightened and unregenerate. I'm just surveying some of the reasons why we can expect something that is latent and
10:14 -  ordinarily under the surface of modern life to break through and to become, again, a threat to this people. There's an attitude that Jews themselves exhibit that is somewhat contemptuous of Gentiles,
10:31 -  the word for which is goyim, and I grew up with that word out of my mother's mouth, the goyim. You don't say it, you spit it, and it means the other.
10:44 -  It means those that are unlike us, the blond, freckle-faced kind, the standard Anglo-Saxon variety for which we feel such an antithesis, there's such a visible, I can almost say racial difference and on the occasions when we have to have something to do with each other, there's
11:09 -  a friction, a fear, a suspicion of either being taken advantage of by Jews or Gentiles reacting against Jews and against their defencelessness that always puts a Jew on edge, being an alien in the Gentile nations where we have been cast.
11:30 -  Something about the success of this Jewish community is enough to have faint nominal Christians wonder whether their Christianity is all that superior as they have been taught to think.
11:44 -  After all, if you go into a synagogue, it's ordinarily far more impressive than any Gentile setting. If you have occasion to visit the conservative Jewish synagogue in Spokane, I would highly
11:57 -  commend it. It's a treat for the eye. It's a cultural center.
12:03 -  There are stained glass windows of a kind that eclipse anything that we see in our usual Gothic buildings. The ark where the Torah is kept is just a masterpiece of graphic design and the doors
12:16 -  are hammered copper. So everywhere you look, there's a sense of refinement, of culture, of artistic accomplishment have been generous to contribute to establish buildings of a kind that make their comparison
12:34 -  with churches hardly competitive. So you wonder how these synagogues have survived and let alone go on so much as to flourish. We spent maybe over an hour to two hours in that building, walking down the corridors
12:51 -  and looking at the photographs of commemorations of a Sukkot occasion, feast of tabernacles or a Purim party for children from the book of Esther and all of the kinds of things that Jews celebrate in a communal way.
13:09 -  There's their women's Hadassah organization and all their societies with happy faces and the children, the rabbi, the teachers, gives an impression of community in a reality that is unknown to us as Christians and may well raise for those that are shallow in their
13:27 -  own Christianity the haunting thought that there's even a superiority to synagogue life and to Judaism, however much we thought our Christian faith to be absolute and ultimate, which I believe that it is.
13:45 -  So their prestigious institutions, their prominence and success beyond their number in the population, in profession, science, culture appears to validate their Judaism over and against our own nominal Christianity and its absolute claims.
14:05 -  Because of the Holocaust, Jews are not afraid to ask in interfaith dialogues with Christian theologians that maybe you guys have it all wrong. And if the Messiah came, how is it that a Holocaust of this kind could afflict six million
14:21 -  Jews and have its origin out of the nation from which the reform Christianity came, namely Germany? Maybe we need yet to wait for Messiah and you're mistaken in your assumption that this
14:33 -  presumer and outcast was the one that you celebrate as Messiah. Even the doctrine of God needs to be reconsidered in view of the events of modern times. By the way, having spent two years in a Lutheran seminary, I've learned these things and was
14:53 -  shocked at the price that Christendom pays in order to participate in interfaith dialogues with representatives of the Jewish community who will not attend or participate unless Judaism is acknowledged by their Christian counterparts as being as valid as Christianity
15:12 -  itself and that we have as much to learn from them as they from us. So the very premise for interfaith dialogue, which has replaced evangelism to Jews since the Holocaust, puts Christianity in an unfavorable position and gives the Jewish community a
15:34 -  kind of ace up its sleeve that makes us embarrassed to respond or to answer them. The miracle of the state of Israel appears that God is with them even in their Christ rejection.
15:53 -  Jewish ritual and holy days, their position of equality and interfaith dialogues as I'm describing, suggest a validity for Judaism that cannot but cast aspersions of the presumed superiority or absoluteness for the claims of Christ.
16:11 -  The Holocaust itself, issuing from Reform Germany, as I've said, seems to validate their claims that Christianity is bankrupt. I don't know if you know that.
16:22 -  The way in which Jews understand the Holocaust is that it is a statement of Christian bankruptcy. And when the next Holocaust comes, that's exactly the way in which they will interpret it as they have interpreted the last.
16:37 -  They see the reference in the New Testament to Jews in a kind of uncomplimentary way which they reckon has been a factor in the inculcation of anti-Semitism by Christianity itself. And I've attended conferences where Christian theologians and spokesmen have suggested that
16:59 -  we need to refine the New Testament and to retract and to omit those statements which are of a kind that the Jewish community has fingered as being insulting and adversarial to themselves.
17:12 -  There's a real turmoil, I don't have a word for it. There's a real something going on in a subterranean way over the issue of Christianity and Judaism and theology and interfaith dialogues that while it's at that yet level now, it's only
17:34 -  a matter of time before it reaches the grassroots level and will affect large numbers of people wholesale. There's a fear of a Zionist conspiracy and the protocols of Zion, how many people have
17:49 -  ever heard of it? Okay, praise the Lord, more than I would have expected. It is a dubious publication that Jews have condemned since its advent in the mid or late
18:04 -  19th century as written by anti-Semites to attribute to them a kind of conspiracy by which Jews or Zionism will take over the world. That's the kind of perverse echo of what is actually God's intention, which is to say
18:22 -  that out of Zion shall go forth the law and the word of the Lord out of Jerusalem and that a redeemed and restored Israel will be central to all nations. But in the perverse way in which Satan takes the purposes of God and twists them and gives
18:37 -  a malevolent cast to the unregenerate, there's a fear of Jewish conspiracy and takeover. So, men like Greenspan, who's the head of the bank, what is it called, establishing the interest rates and the American economy and whose decisions, this one man is in a
18:57 -  place of such great influence and power that our economy can rise and fall based on his indigestion. So, Jews may be proud that other Jews have attained positions of prominence in American
19:12 -  society, but the place of prominence makes it a place of threat should there be a collapse in which Jews can be fingered and even looked upon as a deliberate collapse in order to give them a predominance over gentile nations.
19:29 -  I hope I'm not encouraging any of these thoughts in you, but maybe you have had them in a kind of a latent disposition of your own soul and you've never had an occasion by which it has been brought to the level of consciousness.
19:43 -  But I think I can safely predict that events that are already in working principally in what's taking place in Israel but will affect Jews worldwide will bring those things to the surface.
19:55 -  There'll be an open and frank acknowledgement of fear, of suspicion, of hostility. The Nazis in their rallies in the early Hitler time had around their auditoriums like this the phrase, the Jews are our misfortune.
20:12 -  The Judens sind unser Unglück and the world I think will increasingly say, particularly if there's a Middle East conflict, particularly if our oil shall be threatened and our world economy tipped into its balance, that the world will say the Jews are our misfortune.
20:32 -  Some of them are saying we're completing what Hitler failed to complete. I was in Russia in a city near the foothills of Siberia and there was a communist party rally going on with their hammer and sickle and a speaker in the great crowds and the
20:49 -  man was brandishing the sword and I asked the interpreter in the car what is he saying and she said he's saying that until our sword is dipped in Jewish blood we will never be free of the tyrannical influence of Jews in our nation.
21:06 -  In the Russian Congress in their open debates men can get up and make public anti-Semitic remarks and no one thinks it in any way out of order. So my last trip before I settle into New York and my involvement with the Jewish community
21:26 -  will include Russia and the Ukraine because I didn't want to lose the occasion to speak to the church of those nations, something along the lines that I'm sharing with you that they would not be sucked in themselves into the vortex of anti-Semitism that will
21:44 -  sweep those nations in the future as it has historically. The dark clouds are gathering you dear saints and you need to know that and there will not be a place in the world where a Jew will find himself safe.
22:00 -  So from the Christian point of view with regard to the Jew I'd like to raise a few questions. Have we sufficiently wrestled with the concept or the issue of election? God's chosenness of Israel and the Jew is the issue of election and there are some of
22:22 -  us who smart over that and don't agree with God's choice and would prefer that he had elected someone other than the Jews and we may give passive approval because to say doctrine that is fixed in our faith but we don't rejoice over it in the inner man.
22:45 -  In a word we have not surrendered our hearts to God's choice and we are not choosing what he has chosen and even have a lingering resentment and an argument with God about that choice and in fact that's the very reason I believe that God has chosen them to unmask and to
23:02 -  reveal your heart. You need to know you dear Christian saints that there is this latent anti-Semitism. We know about Jewish pride but do you know about Gentile pride?
23:15 -  You know about the pride of nations? That's what the word goyim means the nations and that God in his brilliance flushing us out knows ways of what to pick and to choose to be for us as Gentile Christians a stumbling
23:31 -  stone in Zion unless there is a whole hearted agreement and approval with God's chosenness and his right to choose we are at a certain enmity with God himself that would never have been revealed except that the issue of the chosenness of Israel has spotted it and he
23:52 -  does not choose Israel for its commendable qualities. In fact they are chosen all the more because they lack them. If they had commendable attributes and accomplishment you would agree with this choice because your
24:05 -  life more than you know is predicated not on grace but on merit and accomplishment and approval of men and yourself. We subscribe to the doctrine of grace but more deeply than we know.
24:20 -  We are affected and view one another and ourselves not that God's grace is independent of our condition or qualification but that we ourselves have our own qualifications and esteemed people according to their merit, their conduct, their office, their appearance.
24:46 -  And what flushes us out is that God's election is entirely independent of any qualification that Israel would have because the fact of the matter is that they have none. Quite frankly we are told that you are blaspheme my name in every nation where I have driven
25:05 -  you but that does not abolish or nullify their chosenness and God's mercy that will yet come to them not because they deserve it but because it is God and that is his mercy and nothing more reveals it than to extend mercy to those who are totally undeserving.
25:24 -  You need to understand that more than just with your minds but equally with your hearts or you are at a disparity with God himself and that though we give nominal assent to the doctrine of grace we are living more than we know it pharisaically at a level of judgment
25:45 -  and qualification and criteria by which we evaluate one another and ourselves. The Jew finds us out. That's the wisdom of God in appointing a people whose very presence and existence and his relationship with them reveals to us what we would not otherwise
26:04 -  have seen. Jacob I have loved and Esau I have hated. What are you going to do with a God like that? He doesn't even explain it. It has nothing to do with Jacob being more attractive or
26:20 -  Esau failing and desiring his partage over his initial inheritance. It's God being God. It's God choosing to exercise his sovereignty because he will have mercy upon whom he will have mercy and he will elect whom he will elect and that's what makes him God.
26:39 -  But you agree with that and agree wholeheartedly or reluctantly is the issue of your own condition and your own faith. The presence of the Jew and their inability to forfeit their gift and calling and covenant relationship despite their apostasy aggravates and reveals the
26:58 -  depth of our own intractable Pharisaism. They don't deserve it. They don't. But that you make the issue the issue of deserving is more a statement of your condition than it is of theirs. In fact, we might well suspect that though they did not need any help from God
27:18 -  that their condition is of such a kind as to serve the purpose of revealing the condition of men in the world and that of the church in a way that it would not otherwise know it when they say they don't deserve it. What has deserving to do with your own salvation?
27:39 -  That there's a gift in calling that is irrevocable for which God will not repent but fulfill is not only something that will irritate us but remarkably shows forth God as God in a way that we would not otherwise see him, which is to say he is going to fulfill what he said
27:59 -  he will perform independent even of the willingness of that people to be a nation of priests and a light unto the world. And the fact that he will succeed in it despite their intractable unwillingness is all the more the testimony of God. Because if somebody fails us and disappoints
28:17 -  us, we're finished with them. They've had their chance and a lot of people feel, Christians feel that way about Israel. They've had their chance and now God's finished with them. We take over. We are now the Israel of God. But God is not finished with them. The fact that
28:32 -  they have failed and failed colossally, scandalously, blasphemously does not dismiss God's enduring love for them and his intention for them despite what they are in themselves. And that's what God is. But the question is, is that what we are? We begrudge them their prodigal acceptance
28:55 -  by the Father and will not attend the feast that he has prepared for their homecoming. We will be sullen like the older brother and not come in. You never did that for me. And look at those bums, those upstarts. And they have wasted their inheritance and they have
29:12 -  led the world in rebellion against God. They're the head of every kind of radical movement and Karl Marx and Marxism and communism. And you'll rush to meet them and give them a cloak and a ring and a kiss and a feast? Well, you may, but I'm not. And the Lord has to say
29:30 -  to us, as he said to the Father, said to that unbecoming older brother, don't you know that all that I have has always been yours? Why do you begrudge them?