The Anatomy of a Prophetic Theme

00:00 -  What does the scripture say? There's neither male nor female, one nor three, Jew nor Gentile, something like that? It's amazing how grossly that is misunderstood and simplified as if God has abolished those distinctions and swept a kind of a wand over these distinctions to establish a kind of uniformity which robs God of His glory.
00:27 -  There's no distinction that God's not partial, He's not favoring the one over the other, but He's not abolishing the distinctions which He Himself has established and has established them for His glory. There's a mystery in male and female. There's a mystery in Jew and Gentile.
00:47 -  And so I have just come out from one of the most radical encounters of that mystery in my soon 38, well now 38 years as a believer, and so I'm supposing that the Lord is wanting to communicate something of that. Maybe I ought to start from the end and then work back to the beginning,
01:09 -  but the end was leaving the building where the conference had been conducted in a kind of a final heap where we learned that we had to be out at a certain hour and we were running late because the principal brother and sponsor took about two hours to share his heart, leaving me only a short time.
01:31 -  And before I could even get up, a young girl in a wheelchair whom I've seen now on two or three occasions from Idaho had a seizure, what do they call it, an epileptic seizure, and of course that brought the house down and everybody was around her chair and praying with their hands extended,
01:54 -  the parents ministering, and somehow she recovered, and that brought the brothers' remarks to a kind of an end. And then before I could come up, one of the leaders, his son-in-law who had been in sin and in the world, had repented and wanted to make a public confession, and so they arranged for him to come up on the platform
02:21 -  and he made that confession, and then his family was invited up for a kind of symbolic acceptance and reconciliation, very time-consuming and bordering on what was sentimental, and I'm sitting, waiting, chomping at the bit to bring forth this final word which the Lord had given me upon arrival and I had never before spoken.
02:46 -  So the time is running out and they're bidding me to come up now because it's late, before this family is even off the platform. To be very frank, I was depleted by the brothers' sharing. Isn't that remarkable? Everything that he said was scriptural and you can say amen and applaud if much, if not all of it,
03:08 -  and yet I was strangely depleted by the time he finished that I had no life in me. I could not speak and I had to call up a visiting brother from California, one of the sweet singers of Israel, to share a couple of choruses to replenish my spirit, which he did,
03:30 -  only fearful that the worship leader assigned to that conference would himself come up, who had left me flat throughout the entire days and whom I encountered on the way out of the building, who stopped me and said, well, brother, he said, if you are a brother,
03:51 -  if anyone had come and spoken as much as you have on the Jews about Mexicans or Indians, I would have been thoroughly turned off for that people, implying that now I'm thoroughly turned off about Jews because in your three messages that was your exclusive emphasis.
04:12 -  I said, well, dear man, what do I say to him? Something like, you're just completely out of it. You have not understood a thing. In fact, he had come on the platform in this time of leading and worship to make a statement of that kind, that he has no resentment against Mexicans, Indians, Blacks or Jews
04:34 -  and that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, as if my message about the Jew or the relationship with the church was some kind of humanistic appeal for equality. But before getting to the parking lot, I was met by the sponsor of the conference who had spoken lengthily that morning
04:55 -  and when I finished my message, I gave an invitation, which was a repeat of an invitation given earlier for Gentile Christians to break in their Gentile arrogance and pride and humble themselves before the Lord and acknowledge that there's a deep-seated antagonism.
05:20 -  In fact, the very first word that I spoke at the commencement of the three messages, that in my 38 years as a believer, I finally have come to the conclusion that there is an inveterate and implicit, latent anti-Semitism in every Gentile. The only thing that will save a Gentile from experiencing, succumbing or expressing that is the deep work of God by the Spirit
05:48 -  and a union with God who loves the people that would otherwise be the object of anti-Semitism. But intrinsically and naturally, anti-Jewishness is intrinsic in being Gentile. And maybe I'll share with you some of the reasons that I gave that would explain that socially and historically,
06:12 -  but that this is even to be found in Christians if they're not conscious of this propensity or they have not met God in a depth in which this is met and sanctified. And so the final invitation, because the Lord gave an emphasis, as I've shared earlier, on the Tent of Shem,
06:31 -  was that there's no way for Japheth, for Europeans, to receive the benefit of dwelling in the Tent of Shem, which is symbolic of God's mediating and Abrahamic, Davidic, Hebraic influence, except to bow to enter. You don't come barging into that tent. You come in lowly. You come in broken and bowed.
07:01 -  And so I gave an invitation in a keeping with that word to come and bow and enter the Tent of Shem, come and break. And the brother who is the sponsor, and this is what makes this so difficult, don't ask me for any names. I hope that you don't need to know.
07:23 -  It doesn't matter what the name of this brother is or the location, because what is represented is endemic. It's classic. And he's a brother of the finest kind and an author and one who has blessed me.
07:38 -  And as I prayed, was it yesterday morning after this whole episode to the Lord, I said, whose shoes, whose laces I am not worthy to untie. This same brother was so provoked by me that he was outside on the steps of the building.
07:55 -  And as I came out, I said something like, sorry about that, you know, regretting that there was any kind of altercation because he had come up on the platform after I had given the invitation and said this.
08:10 -  There's only one Jesus, not two, not one Jesus to the Christian and one to the Jew, only one Jesus to the Christians. Don't bow to any other but our Jesus. This which is being presented is not right.
08:26 -  I didn't hear those remarks because I was not wearing my hearing aids. And he had come onto the platform and was speaking from the apron of the platform and I was behind gathering up my Bibles and papers.
08:42 -  When he came up on the platform, I'll show you how naive I am, I gave him the microphone, I thought, praise God, is that this brother would be touched in his deeps and age as though he is in his mid-80s
08:56 -  and visibly close to the termination of his natural life, that God would bring some dimension into his understanding of the faith that will hollow his latter days and enable him to enter into his eternal reward
09:11 -  even with a greater measure of glory. And that finally after a third message under an anointing that seemed to me quite clear and rich, finally he whom I had prayed for most devoutly to be the chief recipient of that word
09:30 -  was finally experiencing that and was coming up on the platform to say something like, I have been found out and the Lord has put his finger on a depth of intransigence and my own heart told the Jew that I had never thought existed
09:44 -  and I want publicly to take this occasion to break and to repent and to encourage you also to respond to the measure that you have been, instead he completely repudiated that word and made the invitation to enter the tent of Shem
10:00 -  as if I was inviting Christians to bow before some other God. So when I came out of the building, this man was enraged and he had his Bibles and books in his hand
10:15 -  and when I came over to extend my hand to say sorry, he beat me on the chest with his books. I think the only thing that kept him from beating me on my head
10:26 -  was propriety or people around to observe, but he could barely control his outrage and he said to me, your fleshly, you are a fleshly Jew, your Jewish arrogance,
10:42 -  like something like that and so what can I say? That's the way the whole episode ended. The way it began was arriving in Spokane
10:55 -  where we spent the night before driving up to Canada and somehow finding ourselves in the synagogue in Spokane which was not far from where we were staying.
11:06 -  I don't know how it came up in our conversation, but the lady wanted to show us the beautiful architecture and that this synagogue, conservative Judaism,
11:16 -  is planning a Holocaust memorial on a property adjacent to their synagogue. So we drove around the building which was architecturally impressive and I said, let's go in.
11:28 -  Oh, she didn't think that we should, but we did and the rabbi was out but the secretary was in and was courteous and showed us around the building.
11:38 -  The sanctuary was awesome. The interior, the ark with us where the Torah is kept was so ornate and so artistic, it was breathtaking.
11:50 -  The doors were of hammered copper with Hebraic symbols of ram's horns and all kinds of beautiful things. Stained glass windows of a kind that make church ornamental windows shabby.
12:08 -  It was an aesthetic delight to walk through that sanctuary and the building itself and along the corridors are photographs of the history of the Jewish community of Spokane, Washington.
12:22 -  Going back to the early 1920s, 1930s, the Hadassah women's group with the hairstyle of that time and the Bar Mitzvah group, I forgot what they called it,
12:36 -  that were being trained by the rabbi, standing with the rabbi and different scenes of Purim festivals and Passover celebrations and other kinds of things in the history of their congregation
12:48 -  that made me jealous, that communicated a sense of community and I don't have a word for it, a kind of dimension that is absent from our Christian experience
13:02 -  and very rarely ever even recognized as a dimension that is absent or that needs to be obtained, was natural to this synagogue, to its congregation, to its history.
13:16 -  And so my appetite was whetted. They have a library in the building and a social hall and the kind of thing that makes you jealous to have an affinity with that people
13:28 -  and to draw something from them and communicate something to them and a feeling that somehow we have been cheated out of a relationship for one reason or another with Jews in our locality
13:42 -  that is contrary to God's intention that would enhance and bless us as believers and bring to them a dimension of things that will be salvational. But though they are near, yet they are far.
13:56 -  And most Christians are too self-conscious or intimidated to find themselves in synagogues and to move through them in a way in which they could enjoy a relationship
14:10 -  and with discretion relate to that people in a way that would bless them and receive something from them. It would be a commendable dimension.
14:20 -  Am I making sense? Please believe me. I'm not trying to Judaize anyone
14:27 -  and I know more than anyone how dangerous some of the elements of synagogue practice are. And I'm very suspicious about the adoption of some of these things
14:43 -  by messianic congregations that love the cultural and other aspects of that Judaism that have, in my sense, a latent demonic potential because the synagogue phenomenon itself is an exilic phenomenon
15:00 -  which is to say something born out of judgment and carries something of the implication of judgment and curse with it. So to emulate it and to like it because it brings attractive dimensions
15:16 -  that are absent from our church life is to touch something that has a potential danger. And yet at the same time, that visit to that Spokane synagogue touched my heart in a way that had not been touched for a long time,
15:32 -  maybe had never been touched, and warmed me. And then to go from that into this Anglo-Saxon, Gentile Christian environment of the conference
15:43 -  was like going from a steam room into an ice cold shower. Maybe I'm exaggerating. The contrast was very vivid and very sharp.
15:53 -  And my first message reflected the synagogue visit and shared with the Christian audience the kind of thing that I'm sharing with you, an encouragement to break through the barrier
16:07 -  that has too long existed between the Christian and Jewish communities. And all the more now as we approach the end of the age and an increase of the most virulent anti-Semitism everywhere in the world
16:20 -  to make contact with that people, to show ourselves friendly, who now welcome the kind of encouragement and strength that is available to them through evangelical believers.
16:33 -  Because they're aware that they are increasingly alone in a world that is becoming hostile to them. And so I'm reading already articles in Jewish publications
16:43 -  that speak about the radical alteration of attitude on the part of Judaism toward evangelical Christians whom they had kept up to now at arm's length
16:55 -  because the same Christians who are sympathetic about Israel and identify with Israel are the same ones that want to see us converted. So there was this conundrum.
17:07 -  We appreciate their identification with Israel, but we resist their attempt to convert us. That's the quandary.
17:14 -  And yet because Israel now is so bitterly opposed and anti-Semitism has broken out in nations of the world that have been up to now favorably disposed to Jews
17:25 -  and broken out in such forms as has not been seen since the Middle Ages. I don't know how conscious you are of this. You need to be conscious of it
17:35 -  because the Jewish community worldwide and in America is panic-stricken. A 600% increase of anti-Semitic episodes in France where Jews have enjoyed the greatest kind of security
17:50 -  and affluence and participation in French culture and civilization till now. And episodes of such a kind, the burning of synagogues, that when the fire department came to quell the fire,
18:03 -  rioters stoned the fire department people from quenching the fire. And Jews are beat up on their way to school and various other antagonisms of such a kind
18:16 -  where the 500,000 member Jewish community is greatly eclipsed by an Islamic community two or three or four times that size
18:26 -  that have lived amenably alongside one another till now. But the events in Israel have triggered such a vehement antagonism against Jews
18:42 -  that they have never before experienced. And it's not unusual in Egyptian newspapers or Iranian or Iraqi to have articles written by academic Muslims
18:54 -  showing that Jews still use the blood of Gentile children in their ritual sacraments in making matzah for Passover. So this is the medieval blood libel.
19:13 -  The astonishing thing is, it's being circulated in the 21st century not in primitive backward and uneducated parts of the world but in areas of the greatest civilization and enlightenment
19:27 -  as somehow being valid. Jews are being accused of things that they have not heard since the Middle Ages. And when they heard that in the Middle Ages
19:37 -  it provoked riots of such a kind that left Jewish communities decimated. Women raped, children brutalized, houses looted, synagogues burned. And they're hearing now the same kind of incendiary and volatile anti-Semitism
19:53 -  in France, England, Germany, Denmark, Norway, places like that. And so as I've mentioned elsewhere that I'll mention now, but in England, France, and Germany, eminent Jewish leaders have said to those Jewish communities,
20:11 -  you need to learn another language and pack your bags and prepare to move. That the handwriting is on the wall. This isn't some passing thing that will dissolve.
20:22 -  This is the beginning of the kinds of things that we have historically known that in the end will take its toll and are already taking their toll. And the French authorities to whom the Jewish community have complained
20:35 -  and requested protection have told them, we are not in a position to protect you. And that's what I think we will see in all nations where there is an Islamic presence. And in what nation is there not such a presence,
20:50 -  the authorities will not be able to protect the Jewish community within. So that's the basic backdrop and the reason why Jews now sensing their aloneness and defenselessness welcome every expression of friendship
21:07 -  that comes to them from the Christian world, even if it runs the risk of having to bear the threat of conversion. So we're on new historical ground that may open the door for friendship
21:23 -  or contact or fellowship or relationship of a kind that up to now has been not possible. We just need to know what the setting is and I'm sharing that. This morning I read the commentary on Psalm 47.
21:41 -  It's a very simple Psalm that doesn't look like it opens up to much prospect of commentary as some of the other Psalms do. And so I just picked up, which was at my devotional place there,
21:56 -  a commentary published by the art scroll publications people in Brooklyn, New York, not far from the place where I will be living in just another month or two. And I was astonished at the wealth and the richness of their comment on Psalm 47
22:17 -  that I thought did not invite such a rich response as does other Psalms. And the insights, I'm not going to look at it now, but maybe sometime in the evenings or in the days that are before us,
22:34 -  I'll give you a little taste of the kind of orthodox Jewish commentary that will stagger you because of its depth, its richness, and because of what it expresses in a mentality that has been shaped over the course of centuries
22:53 -  and goes back to their sages, their rabbis, their wise men of all generations whose writings and commentary have been cherished and treasured and have come into the life stream of what is called Judaism.
23:10 -  Much of it, some of it, we would take issue. Other of it, we would find it profoundly inspiring and more insightful than that which is offered us by Christian commentators.
23:25 -  So at any rate, it's a way of understanding something of a Judaic mindset, a mentality, an expectation, the way in which they view reality itself as is expressed in their comment on the Psalms.
23:40 -  I also include certain devotional readings in the morning time and the principal one is Oswald Chambers, my utmost for his highest. And today's selection is from a text in Luke chapter 2,
23:58 -  Know ye not that I must be in my father's house? That episode of Jesus at the age of 12 when the family went up to Jerusalem in one of the three occasions in the year
24:10 -  when Jews came up to Jerusalem to celebrate the feasts and the parents left thinking that Jesus was somehow in the entourage with others that came from their community
24:24 -  only to find out a day later that he was not anywhere to be found. And they had to go back again to Jerusalem and to seek him out and they found him engaged in conversation, if not debate,
24:36 -  with the lawyers, with the sages of that generation and were very hurt that he allowed them to be pained by being absent. And he said to them of the staff, don't you know that I need to be in my father's business?
24:56 -  He was astonished that they didn't understand. There is, I will change this comment from that episode. Our Lord's childhood was not immature manhood.
25:07 -  Our Lord's childhood is an eternal fact. Isn't that a remarkable statement? Alright, maybe you could help me.
25:14 -  I've never understood that in the first miracle was it, was it at the gate beautiful with the man born lame in the name of the holy child Jesus?
25:25 -  Isn't that what that's expressed? Why use that reference to Jesus as a holy child? Why not say in the name of the mature and the crucified,
25:39 -  resurrected and ascended son of God, children go ahead and remember that. In the name of the holy child Jesus.
25:47 -  I don't understand it, but I want to. And here Oswald Chambers today picks up on that same theme. Our Lord's childhood was not immature manhood.
25:58 -  Our Lord's childhood is an eternal fact. Something about childhood, something that was intrinsic in Jesus, even at the age of 12, that was brought to greater expression
26:13 -  and maturity and grace as he came into full manhood, but even at that age found expression. Am I a holy innocent child of God by identification with my Lord and Savior?
26:23 -  Do I look upon life as being in my Father's house? Is the Son of God living in his Father's house in me? I think what Oswald Chambers is suggesting
26:34 -  is that there ought to be something in us of what was in him, even at the age of 12, that we are about our Father's business and are in our Father's house.
26:43 -  But this is an article on our website on that subject. Jesus at the age of 12, that somehow this is the way things happen around here. They configure somehow the song for the day, the reading for the day,
27:02 -  the devotional material for the day, the events that have taken place in recent time, conspire and come together in such a way as to form a kind of an amalgam, of content and that touches our conversation and our prayer.
27:20 -  So I'm proceeding with you in the same way that I would have exactly proceeded if you were not here, because all of these things are coming together at this point in time. And I'm not the only one, sometimes it will be another brother
27:34 -  or someone in the fellowship who comes forth with a word and a thought that has the same kind of nexus and the same kind of origin. Maybe what I'm describing is the prophetic matrix, M-A-T-R-I-X,
27:52 -  how something is gestated and birthed in point of time prophetically in keeping with the stratagem of God and the hour and the purposes of God for the church. For when something occurs to us, little bump on the log that we are,
28:14 -  as I often describe in Israel, and as remotely located as we are, somehow in the providence of God, what is gestated with us finds expression that touches the church at large, at least a certain segment of it,
28:29 -  and that we have the disposition to believe is on time with God. And I think that that's what's happening right now. I'm pausing before I go further to show you the anatomy of a thought or a theme
28:49 -  or something that is in God's heart as a present truth in Christ Jesus that is on time, that has come out of the confluence of what has happened to me from the trip I just concluded yesterday, this morning's reading, your presence,
29:05 -  and an article that someone has printed out from our website that came into my hand this morning that happens to be on the same theme. Is that okay?
29:18 -  So whether you agree with it or you appreciate it, at least this much needs to be made clear. This is how, in our experience, prophetic themes are brought into being.
29:36 -  They have a gestation. God uses a confluence of things, and then we find ourselves speaking it. That's how the message came in Canada.
29:48 -  It was influenced by a visit to a synagogue in Spokane, but we weren't even supposed to be in Spokane. We drove all the way from Oregon directly up into Canada, but we had the time,
30:00 -  and while we were in Oregon, I met with friends from Yugoslavia. One of my Yugoslavian sons in the Lord now moved to the Seattle, Washington area, whom we went out of our way to visit, and in the course of that visit,
30:15 -  he said, Art, do you know that Ruth Pearson lives in Spokane, and she's the widow of the doctor who was the American embassy doctor in the capital of Yugoslavia, which is Belgrade.
30:34 -  And he died, but she lives now in this lovely and spacious home. I said, well, maybe we ought to give her a call, and she has a spacious home. Maybe instead of making it all in one exhausting trip, we'll stop off.
30:49 -  And that's exactly what happened. And because of that stop off, the visit came to the synagogue, and because the visit came, something was touched and set in motion
30:58 -  that was brought into Canada and into the conference, and what I spoke as the last day's message of bowing to enter the tent of Shem was given me almost upon arrival in my first free day,
31:12 -  when I would not socialize with anyone or do anything but just stay holed up in the room that was given me and look to the Lord, because I did not come with a message.
31:23 -  I did not have an agenda. I didn't think that I was under obligation to bring anything pertaining to Israel or to the Jew if the Lord had another thought.
31:34 -  And in that very first day holed up in that room, I can show you all of the things that the Lord penciled. And so the last day I spoke what was given on the first day.
31:46 -  So I'm just taking a few minutes to show you the genesis of a word and a theme that I believe is in God's time and therefore appropriate for you, because you're here now right upon the return from that trip,
32:02 -  and it's fresh and alive in my spirit. In fact, ordinarily when I come back from a trip, the very first prayer meeting is often rich and significant
32:14 -  as I give a report of what took place. The Lord enhances it and brings dimensions of understanding and draws out from it richly that would have been lost
32:26 -  if I had waited another day or the following week, because by the following week something else has come up that will crowd out the previous experience and its lost.
32:36 -  So we'd like to review what is current and take advantage of it, which is what we're doing now. And he went down with them after that and came to Nazareth
32:47 -  and he continued in subjection to them and his mother treasured all these things in her heart and Jesus kept increasing in wisdom and stature
32:55 -  and in favor with God and men. As I'll read on here, you'll see that I put a great deal of emphasis on the fact that though his parents misunderstood him,
33:08 -  yet did he return with them and remained with them and subjected himself to them and submitted himself to them knowing that he would continue to live with their misunderstanding
33:21 -  and his willingness to do that, the grace of bearing with that was one of the ingredients given by the Heavenly Father for his increase in stature and in grace and in growth.
33:38 -  And so it is for us also, because there's a remarkable conflict between two things, that which is legitimate, natural, parents desiring their son to be with them and to return with them
33:55 -  to the place from which they came and another kind of necessity for a man to be or even a child to be in his father's house and be about his father's business.
34:09 -  It's probably in the tension between that which is legitimate and that which is spiritual or holy that the nexus for growth takes place. The greatest issues are not between black and white, the good and the evil,
34:28 -  but between the good and the good, between the thing which is natural and legitimate and the thing which is ultimate, the requirement of God. And having to find our way in that tension is the very place for real growth.
34:45 -  But it's a conflict and it's intense. So the parents represent all that is legitimate, natural, sound and respectable when they're concerned for the well-being of a lost son
34:59 -  who had somehow disappeared from their sight. On the other hand, Jesus felt not a twinge of conscience to stay behind in the temple area where he could dispute and reason with the teachers of the law.
35:10 -  The thing that astonished him was that his parents did not understand his action. Why said you were looking for me? Did you not know that I had to be in my father's house?
35:19 -  Why are you surprised and astonished? Why are you alarmed and concerned? You could not fathom that this could be any source of perplexity to them in the same way that I could not fathom that anything that I was saying
35:32 -  or the invitation that I was giving would be a perplexity to the brother who had to come up onto the platform and countermand my invitation and disabuse people from coming forward lest they would be bowing before another God.
35:46 -  But I didn't hear what he was saying, but I knew that there was some disagreement. And when he finished that, I took the microphone and I said, the invitation that was given remains valid
35:58 -  because there were people already at the altar and people coming to the altar. And so from his hearing, it sounds like, well, who is this presumptuous Jewish character countermanding me who am a senior to him and have a much longer history in God?
36:18 -  But what he didn't know was I didn't hear what he said. And all I was saying was, well, now that he's had an opportunity to express himself, let's now pick up where we left off.
36:27 -  But to him, it seemed as if it was a clear violation and an aggressive contradiction of what he was saying. And that, you dear saints, is par for the course.
36:41 -  That is inevitable and intrinsic to the prophetic call. There is ever and always misunderstandings of that kind. Because you didn't have your hearing aids in.
36:51 -  Because I missed hearing something, I gave an invitation and said it's still valid. But you will suffer a misunderstanding and a reproach and an indictment for your conduct, which either you are so bullheaded as to browbeat your way through
37:14 -  or the Lord has seen to it that you didn't have your hearing aids on or you didn't hear what the man said. As for me in my house, I choose to believe it was God.
37:25 -  But the day will come and I'll stand before him and have to be accountable for those actions. And that is the prophetic tension to which you are called.
37:38 -  Something had to happen in an expressed moment when the time was running out and the clock is ticking away and the authorities in that building are trying to bring this thing to a close
37:49 -  because it's a Canadian holiday. And if they stay any longer, they would have to pay their employees overtime. And they had been told that they had to clear it out by 12.30
37:58 -  and it was already past that point. So in all of that rough and tumble tension, this thing is being enacted, which is not conducive to what is spiritual.
38:09 -  And you don't have the luxury of a quiet environment in which you could hear the Lord and what would you have for me to do? Something needs to take place right then, now and in that moment.
38:22 -  Well, listen to this. When I came up on the platform, this girl who had had the fit was recovered but still kind of languishing
38:34 -  and a woman started to wail who had come up to pray for her. What a wailing of commiseration as if to say, well, that's it for the day. We don't need to hear any more message.
38:49 -  What is really of moment is this girl's condition and look how the Spirit of God is prevailing from before. So don't you be presumptuous to think that necessarily your message needs to be spoken.
39:01 -  And behind the girl was a man who said, we can't go any further until this is taken care of. Meaning this girl who has been in that condition since infancy
39:15 -  so much as to say, forget any message. What would you have done then? You candidates for propheticness?
39:24 -  What would you do in that moment? I'm fumbling with my Bible and taking out the notes that I showed you and listening to this guy and that woman wailing.
39:34 -  And I prayed, I can't remember, something like, Lord, you're the Lord over all. And God forbid that anything of any kind, however legitimate, should preclude or diminish anything of your intention for this morning.
39:53 -  We look for your authority to prevail and your will to be done. Something like that. It wasn't a little itsy bitsy tentative prayer walking.
40:04 -  It was boom, an authoritative boom of a prayer. And the woman shut up and that guy shut up and I spoke my message. I'm saying all that to say this.
40:15 -  Everything conspired against that word. A girl has a fit. A woman starts wailing.
40:25 -  A man says, we can't go any further until we take care of this. This has not been taken care of for 20 years. And it proceeded by a man repenting for his being in the world and in sin.
40:35 -  All the family on the platform in a sentimental bash. And the time is running out. And I was supposed to share the time.
40:42 -  The other brother has taken two hours for remarks that absolutely innovated me and drained my spirit. Everything calculated against the moment.
40:53 -  I knew that already there was a controversy. How did I know it? Because after my first message I was taken aside by the leadership
41:01 -  and chastised that I need a deeper circumcision of the heart and a greater brokenness. And that I'm not anointed.
41:11 -  And what do you mean by Jesus saying that brethren, in Matthew 25, the least of these my brethren refers to Jews when the only legitimate use of the word brethren is for believers.
41:23 -  And are you asking us to look upon Jews as brethren before they're saved? And you're encouraging us to visit synagogues? You know, stuff like that.
41:33 -  So a little side room filled with men who were giving it to me from one angle or another came after the first message. I'm not saying any of this to appeal for your sympathy.
41:48 -  I'm a big boy now. I don't need sympathy. I'm saying all this for your instruction.
41:55 -  I'm giving you an on-the-spot live recounting of an episode that is very fresh that contains virtually every element that constitutes prophetic obedience that will be misunderstood, misconstrued,
42:15 -  and be described as lacking anointing or whatever was said to me until a man came up to me before I spoke the second time and he said, Art, your message,
42:28 -  that first message that was described as lacking anointing said, pierced me through. I said, well, that's strange.
42:36 -  How could you have been pierced through when it wasn't anointed? And a woman at the end of that first message broke out and cried out, I have been taken.
42:47 -  What's the word? I have been ripped off. She cried out, I have been ripped off.
42:53 -  What does she mean by that? What you're saying, what I'm hearing from you, is something I have never heard anywhere before from anyone.
43:01 -  I've lived a kind of Christianity in complete absence to the context that you're putting before me in this day. And I'm agitated that I'm hearing it for the first time
43:12 -  after a long life of believing I've been ripped off. And her husband shouted out to me, you can't leave us like this.
43:19 -  You can't start this and leave us hanging. That's the way the conference began. All of this prophetic obedience in which you might well be wrong
43:33 -  and they might well be right, and you have to reckon on that possibility and still continue, is not unlike Jesus going up to the Father's house
43:47 -  and being about his Father's business in defiance, so to speak, of that which is legitimate and normal and coming from his parents. Do you understand that?
44:00 -  What in fact I was demonstrating, and I did not know it until early this morning, was I was demonstrating what it means to be in the tent of Shem,
44:11 -  why it is so desperately necessary that Japheth people bow to enter that tent, because it represents a relationship with God and an obedience and a passion and jealousy for his name, his honor, his word, and his work
44:30 -  that obliterates and puts aside any and every other consideration. What is Semitic? What is Davidic? What is Abrahamic? What is Hebraic in the best sense, to me, is summed up and symbolized in the word Shem.
44:50 -  And what the world needs is to become Shemitic. What the world needs is that its abrasive Japheth character that is aggressive because it's enlarged, and that enlargement came from God.
45:03 -  It was a blessing given by Noah to that son, and his name means enlarged. You'll be enlarged technologically, you'll be enlarged commercially, you'll be enlarged culturally, you'll be enlarged militarily,
45:16 -  but if you go on in an enlargement without the compensatory thing that can only come to you from Shem, you'll constitute a danger as well as a prospect for progress.
45:28 -  And we have seen that danger to the point of the almost extinction of Western civilization in World War II by the leading Japheth nation of the world, Germany, and Japheth needs to be tempered by Shem.
45:42 -  But what is Shem? Shem is an absoluteness for God that tempers your enlargement and makes him first and foremost in every consideration. The fact that it's a tent speaks for itself because a tent suggests pilgrim,
46:02 -  alien, stranger, a sojourner, one passing through who's always an alien in the land because he's looking for that which is built, who's founded and built it and maker is God.
46:15 -  Can you understand the mystery of God? God established those distinctions, but unless they are related in the intention of God, we will suffer the enlargement of Japheth
46:27 -  without any tempering. That's why this brother's message that went on for almost 12 so innovated me. What he was commending was a Babylonian Jesus, a Roman Jesus.
46:39 -  It was technically true, but it lacked the flavor and the character of Jesus as Jesus. In fact, the heart of the message was that the irony of history is that Israel today, for all effects and purposes, is a Japheth people who have been enlarged.
46:59 -  And Israel demonstrates that in her commerce, in her military power, in her emphasis on might, she has no Semitic character at all. And what God is wanting is that for Israel's destiny as the tent of Shem
47:15 -  to be first revealed to it by a church who has come into that identity and will move them to jealousy to obtain that which God intended for them and which they ironically do not display.
47:28 -  So that's why the Japheth church, giving us a Roman and Babylonian Jesus, needs to come into that tent that they might be to Israel the model of God's own intention. If you get a chance to see the article that we're preparing for Jewish readers in New York,
47:46 -  I quote extensively a review of the new edition of the Torah plus commentary issued by the conservative Judaism movement in America in which they have gone whole hog, excuse the pun,
48:05 -  in subscribing to liberal Christian views that the God is a God idea and the references to God as a person of a personality is anthropomorphic and not in keeping with our modern disposition.
48:30 -  So here's Judaism, the mentality of a liberal Christianity which is to say Greek or Roman or however you want to call it. So we ourselves need to be brought into the identity that God intends
48:44 -  or we cannot bless all the families of the earth. The way we bless the families of the earth is by constituting that tent of Shem authentically but we ourselves need to see it modeled by a church that has already come into it.
48:59 -  But when the invitation is given, one of the foremost exponents of Christianity comes up to nullify that invitation as if it's an appeal to bow before another God, as if he's defending the historic faith and doesn't want the intrusion.
49:22 -  Our Christianity lacks the kind of character and flavor that would move Jews to jealousy and really be redolent of the Hebraic, Davidic spirit and character that God intends as normative. And when it's brought into question or challenged, there's such a reaction,
49:44 -  what I'm saying is and I'll probably repeat it, that in my supposed audacity to continue and to say that that invitation is still valid and to antagonize that brother and others with him,
50:00 -  I was really demonstrating more than what I understood then but has come to me earlier this morning what the tent of Shem means, what a son of Shem is and how he acts and conducts himself,
50:13 -  that there's this intense jealousy for God, for the Word, for the truth, for the moment that cannot be countermanded by anything. Even parents in their legitimate right to require their child to be with them
50:29 -  needs to be set aside in deference to the father and the father's business, that that is the genius of what Shem is and only in that character can it be to Japheth. The Japheth Nation is what it must.
50:45 -  It's in Genesis, chapter 9, I think. Do you remember the episode with Noah who became drunk and his youngest son saw him naked
51:04 -  and told the two other brothers who came in carrying a cloth on their shoulders and walked backwards so they would not see their father's nakedness and then when he woke he realized what his son had done to him,
51:22 -  implying maybe something more than just seeing his nakedness. He pronounced the curse upon Canaan, interesting, that hand, but the son of him, the descendants of him, that they will be historically a servant people
51:40 -  and that Japheth would be enlarged, a blessing, but he must dwell in the tent of Shem. It's a cryptic, very brief statement, but it resonates something that goes out to the ends of the age,
51:59 -  which is not unusual that God will give a microscopic statement of such content and amplify it later on as I believe that he's doing now. This episode in Noah is almost prehistory.
52:15 -  It's primordial. It's more ancient than ancient. It's older than Abraham. Abraham comes out of that Semitic origin, but Hebrew begins with Abraham crossing over the root of crossing the Euphrates,
52:33 -  but he's a Semite who's cold, but the word Jewish doesn't get at this, so I don't encourage Jewish roots, which is a cultural, exilic phenomenon. I encourage Hebraic roots. I encourage something older and more holy
52:56 -  and more spiritual and Godly in its origin than what's Jewish. The Jewish thing is much easier to assimilate and to adopt and much more attractive and much more external.
53:08 -  You wear a Star of David, you wear a yarmulke, you put on a tallet, a prayer shawl, a lot of what we say, a shtiklach, a lot of external things that somehow a certain order of Gentile Christians love.
53:23 -  They even have learned how to dabon. They bow and they weave, and it does something for their souls. It's very soulish, but what is Hebraic is not as easy to identify or to obtain.
53:37 -  That requires the cross. That requires union with the ultimate son of Shem himself, who is Jesus, and that's why it's hard to see in Jesus, in his own earthly tenure, anything that's Jewish.
53:54 -  He seems transcendent. He's appropriate to his generation, but he's not a stock thing. He's exhibiting the authentic and ultimate call of God for an entire people.
54:08 -  And I love the way you said it, that what we are depicting as Jesus today is Roman or Babylonian because it lacks exactly this Semitic dimension. The reason it lacks it is because it's only to be found in one place
54:25 -  that requires a bowing and a humbling to enter. And not only were many of these men unwilling to enter, they were antagonistic to the invitation itself,
54:36 -  feeling that they were defending the faith from some incursion of a Jewish kind. God is striking at something that if it were not for the issue of the Jew or Israel, would leave the condition of the church unrevealed.
54:57 -  And we would have gone on to think that we have it all together when there's a depth of something that has not submitted to God at the very heart of things. Not to submit to what he has chosen and required
55:09 -  is not to submit to him, and yet at the same time, externally, in every other way we seem to be subservient and obedient, but if we have not submitted at this thing that is calculated
55:20 -  to be the greatest irritant to the depth of our Gentile pride, we have not really submitted at all. And yet we're speaking the vocabulary of the faith impressively and even successfully.
55:35 -  So the genius of God in this is remarkable. And the way the Lord first opened this subject to my consideration is a Russian whiz kid past 31 years old who started a Bible study
55:48 -  in his living room at the age of 19. And by the time he was in his early 20s, he had then and he has now one of the leading evangelical congregations in Russia of over a thousand believers.
56:01 -  And he shows it. There's something arrogant and cocksure about his pastoral demeanor, where he even looked at me with a degree of suspicion and putting questions to me of a sarcastic kind,
56:16 -  and at a certain point I said to him, I represent for you the tent of Shem. I'm older than you are, I'm a Jewish believer, but more than that,
56:27 -  something about what I am or represent is God's call for you to humble yourself, to break and to submit. That would be a grace for your whole life ministry and future.
56:42 -  And he would not. What he in fact did was to take all of my messages that were taped at his fellowship out of circulation.
56:53 -  So I saw then a son of Japheth, a self-assured man who had been enlarged with remarkable capability to bring out of nothing a congregation of a thousand. When it came to a point of submission of a very real kind represented by me
57:11 -  and the relationship that God was calling it to come under, he would not. What kind of a minister will you be? Will you carry the scent of Japheth into the pulpit and into your ministry?
57:27 -  Or will you bring the resonance and the sense of Shem? Will you be a functionary, a careerist, one moving in the realms that make for religious success,
57:40 -  playing the game and accommodating yourself to men? Or will you have that semi-jealousy for the father of the kind that Jesus depicts in staying behind even though it will offend both father and mother
57:56 -  is something that the Lord is putting before you at this time because you would not otherwise have been conscious or aware that there is such a distinction and that there's a radical something that needs to be recognized and entered
58:14 -  or you will necessarily continue in a Japheth character bringing a Roman Babylonian Jesus and faith into the world. So where are you in the polarities that are being described this morning
58:32 -  is what the Lord is wanting you to consider. This is not just a little academic discussion. It's something that will touch all your future
58:40 -  and today's devotional in Eugene Peterson is something like this. The pastoral or the mysterious vocation of America is embarrassingly banal. B-A-N-A-L.
58:56 -  You know this word? Anybody got a synonym who does? Banal.
59:02 -  Banal is predictable, commonplace, ordinary, cliched kind of a thing. Mediocre. Mediocre.
59:13 -  Banal. Look it up. The pastoral vocation in America is embarrassingly banal.
59:18 -  Predictable. It is banal because it is pursued under the canons of job efficiency and career management. It is banal because it is reduced to the dimension of a job description.
59:31 -  It is banal because it is an idol. I-D-O-L. A call from God exchanged for an offer by the devil for work that can be measured
59:39 -  and manipulated at the convenience of the worker. Holiness is not banal. Holiness is blazing.
59:47 -  And Eugene Peterson has put the whole Bible into present idiomatic English in Revelation 2.20. But why do you let that Jezebel who calls himself a prophet mislead my dear servants into cross-denying, self-indulging religion?
01:00:04 -  I gave her a chance to change her way, but she has no intention of giving up a career in the God business. Watch out that you don't become a functionary in the God business and climb the ladder of success from youth ministry to associate pastor to senior pastor.
01:00:27 -  The whole thing is laid out for you and you'll unconsciously move from one to the other unless there's something so deep that has come into your deeps of a semitic kind that will enable you to recognize the traps and the threats and to avoid them at cost.
01:00:47 -  And you'll be called to a school of obedience of the kind that I'm describing to you out of my recent experience where you'll have to count to man men and you'll have to say to the woman who's wailing, shut up, and to the brother who's saying, we'll not go further until we attend to it.
01:01:02 -  Oh yeah, we are going further. It's the word of God and nothing will displace it. You're going to be called to that kind of jealous insistence that will lead to being misunderstood and being misconstrued.
01:01:16 -  You'll be looked upon as arrogant. They won't accuse you of Jewish pride, but of another kind. But this is what the Tent of Shem means and this is the Hebraic, Semitic, Davidic quotient and character that must come to God's people in the last days.
01:01:35 -  Or how shall we be to Israel and to the nations what we ought? So I'm just throwing that in for your sober consideration. I actually called yesterday from Spokane back to Canada
01:01:49 -  and spoke to the brother who is my host because I knew I could not speak directly to the brother who hit me with his Bible to say, I want you to know that I did not hear what the brother was saying. I didn't know that he was count demanding my invitation.
01:02:07 -  And all I thought was that he was expressing some difference. But now that he has expressed it, now let's return and complete what God has already said in motion with that invitation. But I want you to tell the brother that this was not a conscious defiance that I heard what he was saying
01:02:24 -  and I was overruling him because I respect him as an older brother and a man with such seniority of the Lord before I had ever come to the faith. So please tell him because now I realized that when he was so angry
01:02:41 -  that he thought that I had deliberately overruled his injunction not to bow. But I let him know that that was not my conscious intention. Now the question is, if I had heard what he said, what should I have done?
01:03:01 -  I'm off the hook because I didn't hear. But if I had heard, what do you recommend? Should I still be insistent and jealous to bring the people all the way through to a response to that word
01:03:16 -  even though it would more greatly exacerbate and offend this brother and others with him? Or should I have deferred to his authority and left it hanging? That's the question.
01:03:28 -  And I'm grateful for this opportunity and trying to present the facts of it as accurately as I know how and that we can shift and find our way to a real God-pleasing critique and understanding of the kind that I prayed at the beginning.
01:03:48 -  Well, should we take a little break and breather?