The Formation of an Apostle

00:00 -  Well, thank you, Lord, for part two, the completion, Lord, of this morning. Thank you for the first part, precious from every reckoning, more valuable than we know, more than we are able presently to understand and to take in.
00:27 -  But let the spirit of the Word, my God, have gone into our spirits and bring it to the level of our consciousness and our understanding. For it's not easy, my God, to take you in in one fell swoop and reduce you to an outline or two notes. So we thank you for the spirit of
00:46 -  understanding which we ask would be liberally granted us, put into our inner man, Lord, and we will find ourselves having things and these thoughts brought to our recall. For we know that your Word will not return to you void but will accomplish every purpose
01:03 -  whereunto it was sent. And we know that it's a Word that is going to us and yet through us and beyond us to a larger audience out there to receive the benefit. For it's a rare note that you're sounding. It's an unusual note and it's a corrective, healthy note that the
01:21 -  church needs at this time from what I can see and understand. So, Lord, you're full of mercy and may you continue with us and help us, everyone, to come to the place of your desire. Bless now this continuation and give us a fresh ability, my God, to hear it without sagging and
01:40 -  getting dulled. We thank and give you praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, my thought for this portion is to show you a companion text in the Old Testament that will touch many of the essential principles that we saw in the formation of Paul as an apostle to show you how timeless and eternal
02:03 -  God's way with man is and especially those who are called to his purposes. So, if you turn to Exodus 24, we'll look at God's, not God's call to Moses, but the distinctive turning point on the mount because Moses' ability to lead the nation through this demanding wilderness time rests so
02:42 -  much on his ability to communicate God, not to act in some officious way and in some high-handed way, but to reflect and to express God. In fact, his failure to do that at the very end when Moses was provoked by the people to smack the rock and he spoke out with vexation, God penalized him by
03:09 -  not allowing him to come into the land. After all that prodigious labor and painstaking faithfulness through many trials to bring the people to the very threshold of the land, he himself was not allowed the privilege because God said, you did not sanctify me before the people. What that means is that when
03:30 -  you displayed that fit of impatience and temper, though you were provoked, you set forth a picture of me that is not me because you are my representative. You're my apostolic projection and in that moment, you betrayed the image of me, which, by the way, it's interesting to note that Jesus, whose
03:55 -  provocation was greater than Moses at the cross, when he was jeered and taunted by his own people, did not act in vexation and being provoked to revile again, being reviled upon, but quite the contrary. At that very critical juncture, he showed forth God when he said, Father, forgive them,
04:15 -  for they know not what they do. His patience and his compassion in that moment was the supreme revelation of God because crisis reveals and absolute crisis reveals absolutely. On the crisis of the cross came the greatest revelation of God as God and that means for us we are all moving toward
04:38 -  a final crisis of last day's persecution where we are going to be provoked, harassed, be oppressed, be beset upon and what we exhibit in that provocation will be the ultimate statement of what we are in God and how much we know him and can reveal him when we are provoked in an ultimate way.
05:04 -  This is a what we are is not what we enjoy in a pleasant moment when we're well-fed and housed and warm and in the company of the saints. What we show in crisis, what we show in extremity, is what we in fact are in God and that's the summation of an entire lifetime of relationship
05:24 -  with him and to what degree he has been formed in us. So with the episode in Exodus 24 is a critical point in the history of God's formation of Moses as a deliverer of Israel. When God appeared at the mount and invited Moses to come up unto the Lord in verse 1 and other of the elders
05:54 -  of Israel to a distance but only Moses alone was to go to the top of the mount and only and Moses alone it says in verse 2 shall come near the Lord but they shall not come near neither shall the people go up with him. So this is a critical going up and Moses made all the preparation for it and then
06:21 -  went up in verse 9 and they saw the God of Israel in verse 10 and there was under his feet as it were a paved work of a sapphire stone and as it were the body of heaven in his or its clearness or clarity and upon the nobles of the children of Israel he laid not his hand. What does that mean?
06:47 -  God did not penalize them for seeing him for no man shall see God and live. He gave them a very special glimpse because they're going through a remarkable arduous trial, a demand, a transition from slavery into nationhood through a wilderness and when God calls us to a pilgrimage of an
07:08 -  ultimate kind we need an ultimate revelation of God that will sustain us through all of the dark and heavy days of trial that are ahead and he afforded the leaders of Israel this glimpse. But for Moses there's yet something more. He's not to see God at a distance but he's to see
07:29 -  God face to face. So in verse 12 the Lord said unto Moses come up to me into the mount and be there and I will give thee tables of stone and the law and commandments which I have written that thou mayest teach them. So Moses rose up and his minister Joshua and went up into the mount
07:53 -  of God and he told the elders Terry hear for us until we come again and Moses went up into the mount in verse 15 and a cloud covered the mount and the glory of the Lord abode upon Mount Sinai and the cloud coveted six days and unto the seventh day he called unto Moses out of the
08:13 -  midst of the cloud and the sight of the glory of the Lord was like a devouring fire on the top of the mount in the eyes of the children of Israel and Moses went into the midst of the cloud and got him up into the mount and Moses was in the mount forty days and forty nights. Well we
08:32 -  have to appreciate this remarkable episode that is so sparingly described. It's remarkable how terse the Bible is in these great events and even in the crucifixion of Jesus we read something like and they crucified him instead of God be laboring and getting every last ounce out of
08:57 -  something as if this is a cast of thousands and an emotional orgy is very sparing, very select, it makes a demand upon our spirit to come up and to catch the sense of it. So try and picture this forty-day sojourn going up into the mount. How critical this is for Moses because he cannot come
09:28 -  down with the tablets of the law, the instruction for the nation how to live before God in covenant except that he first meets with God and receives the law from God's own hand, not second hand, he has to have a direct event with God himself. So we want to just study the language very carefully
09:50 -  because here again is a paradigm or a pattern of significance for all generations. So in verse 12 come up to me into the mount and be there and I will give the tables of stone a law of commandments which I have written that thou mayest teach them. Remember the language in Galatians that I might
10:16 -  preach Christ because the but then God has revealed himself. Paul had to wait for the but when of God in order that he might and so also Moses. There's no bringing the law to the people at his initiative but at God's when I will give you the law on the tablets which I have written
10:40 -  but what's the condition for receiving it? Come up unto me and be there not get there but be there and I will give you. God's not going to give the law the sacred holy requirement for the walk of the nation that would be a witness to all nations in some cheap way as if it's just a matter of
11:04 -  receiving a transfer, taking a course, getting a diploma. No, come up unto me and be there and then I will give you. I'm not going to give you. I'm not an expediency that is just a station on the way that if you get to this location then you get it and what you want for your ministry you can then
11:26 -  come down and perform. This is before any ministry and all ministry is coming up unto me and being there and that's worth going up and it is a going up because everything in the world the flesh and the devil will prohibit or inhibit that going up. It's an exertion. The tendency of the flesh is to
11:52 -  go down or to go back but to go up implies that this is no snap. It's going to require something, an exertion, sacrifice. Moses neither ate nor drank for those 40 days and the glory of God covered the top of the mount. Israel was trembling at the sight of the majesty of God in fire on top of the
12:17 -  holy mount and Moses alone was called to go up into it and be there. So for six days he waited in the smoke and on the seventh day God called unto him to come unto me and be there. See more important to just bringing the tablets of the law is bringing God and bringing the sense of God. That's what an
12:44 -  apostle is. That's what the foundation of the church is. Not just the rules, the regulations and the how-to but the very essence and the reality of what God is in himself. That is the foundation. If we lose that we lose everything and so often do I pray when I'm going to someplace to speak Lord
13:03 -  I beseech you communicate the sense of yourself in these days apart from any benefit that will be gained from the message. May there be the communication of yourself as yourself for your people do not know you as they ought. They have a shallow sentimental projection of their own
13:25 -  fancy but it is not you in the awesomeness of your own fear and holiness that the church lacks which which is evident from the likeness that is in the church and the absence of the fear of the Lord. We do not know God as we ought because we're unwilling to go up. We're unwilling for the
13:46 -  exertion. We're unwilling to be separated from the mass of things below. This is a radical call and a radical separation and a radical exertion but God will reward it and it's not just going up to get your diploma or to get your enablement for the ministry. Come up unto me not unto the law.
14:05 -  Come up unto me and be there. I'm going to be there in what I am as God and you'll be there in what you are as Moses and the absoluteness of what you are in the reality what you are will meet with me in the reality that I am and from that moment on you'll be transfused. Something will
14:23 -  come into you from this reality of soul to soul, face to face, spirit to spirit that will change you and that you'll be more than one who conveys the law you'll convey the God of the law with the law. Wouldn't you like ministers like that to lead us through the wilderness? To be there is something
14:51 -  that we have proved ourselves patently incapable to do with each other let alone with God. Are we really being there? We're living in the same house. We're meeting every morning at the breakfast table and in prayer and in the classroom but are we being there? What we are in truth in ourselves.
15:10 -  Are we coming before each other in that being? Because the world is dying for the want of reality. The want of how to be. You shall be witnesses for me not do it for me. You shall be it. There's a being. There's a reality. There's a truth. There's an authenticity that comes when we bring the whole
15:34 -  of what we are face to face with God's people. But how shall we do with one another if we have not come up to be there with him? So come up unto me. Be there. And before he could come into that presence on the seventh day, which is the number of completion and perfection, he was six days in
15:58 -  the cloud. The cloud is the smoke that wreathed the top of the Mount of God from the God who is the consuming fire and was the terrifying presence on top of that Mount. Moses had to stay six days in the smoke before he could be called on the seventh into God's presence. Well have you ever
16:18 -  been in smoke for six hours, six minutes, six seconds? I praise God for my one experience that was absolutely terrifying and I hope I'll never be required again to experience it. But having experienced it gave me an insight into what was required from Moses before he could come into God's
16:41 -  presence and namely that smoke is the most humanly disorienting phenomenon that there is. Here's how it happened. We had left the community for a short season away in Kansas City to help the marriage along because of the struggles that I was describing before and we came back for a visit in the winter
17:01 -  time and something went wrong with the building in which we were staying and about three or four in the morning we heard the crackling of fire. That building went up, I can't tell you how quick. On the counter in the kitchen I had put a whole box of tapes of my messages, the master tapes that I had
17:20 -  brought from Kansas City. They were priceless in value and my wife had put her pocketbook up on that counter. We had been brought out of the house because of the fire and my wife said to me can you go in and get my pocketbook? I said sure, the fire is yet in the living room, had not yet touched
17:37 -  the kitchen. So I said no sweat. So I bowed low, pushed the door open and went in on my hands and feet on this tile floor because I knew that house like the palm of my hand. But the moment that I got in through the door and into the smoke I did not know where I was. I was completely and totally
18:00 -  disoriented. Not only could I not find the kitchen counter, I could not find the door through which I had just entered. I did not know where I was. Every human thing that pertained to my knowledge and understanding was completely lost in the cloud of the smoke. Moses was six days in such a cloud.
18:20 -  I was less than six minutes and I'll never forget it. Why? Because Moses in order to come into God's presence could not bring his categories with him. He could not bring his charismatic understanding and his principles and what he had learned from men and all of the kinds of things that are correct
18:39 -  but are not correct enough that we need to receive not from man but from God in coming up unto him. And if we're coming up unto him in order to receive it we're disqualified because already that's a utilitarian purpose. That's a motivation that is not for God's sake but for our own.
18:58 -  God didn't say come up to me so that you can get something. He said come up unto me and be there without any strings attached, without looking for something or what would benefit your ministry because I deserve your full presence before me without any strings attached or any qualification
19:16 -  or any demand. And if you come up with any demand you're not coming up. You're just a cheap commercial transactor seeking for some personal benefit but you're not going to have me. If you want me, if you want to come into my presence, I'm God. You cannot come with any even religious or spiritual
19:34 -  motive that will benefit you or even benefit men. You've got to come up unto me because I alone am God. And if you don't come up and don't know me and don't receive something and impartation in that communion, how do I dare entrust to you with the tablets of the law? What do you think they
19:51 -  are? Some plastic cheapie? The law is what I am as God in my righteousness and you'll not be able to carry those tablets and communicate its content unless you have first been in my presence. Now that's the presence of God is highly touted today in charismatic circles but I'm very dubious about
20:12 -  it because it's a felt presence and it's aided and abetted by amplifiers and musicality and so we think that an emotion or a mood that is induced through music is somehow the presence. Dear Saints, if it needs any kind of human aid to cultivate or nurture it, it's already not that.
20:34 -  We've got to go through the smoke and the smoke disarms every human thing because you cannot even bring the best of human things before him. He's God and there's always a taint, always a corruption in what is of man. Jesus would not trust him and trust himself to them because he knew what was
20:55 -  in man. They had seen his miracles and they were ready to believe but he would not accept that kind of believing. It was a believing that was induced by something visible. The believing that he was waiting for is only that which the Father can give for no man can come to me except the Father
21:12 -  draw him and I'm not going to have your faith in me on what you have observed with your human eyes and understanding. He knew what was in man and would not trust himself to man. The world is dying Saints for the knowledge of God as God and with that knowledge is trivialized when it's
21:30 -  cheapened, when it is affected by music, by emotion, by moods. I can't stand it when I give an invitation and some guy goes up to the platform starts playing the organ or the piano. I didn't ask for that. What does God need your help? The people can't respond to the Word of God without a
21:48 -  musical backdrop. What is this generation? We can't be moved except that there's a mood created by instruments. Is God's Word not enough in itself? What kind of response then is it if people have been psychologized or affected in their souls in order to respond? What God are we taking away
22:10 -  from that altar that we will subsequently communicate where we ourselves will then need a musical backdrop? We do not know God as we ought and if this was required by Moses and for Paul, the revelation that I might preach him as he in fact is and not as people think him to be,
22:31 -  this sense of God is critical and you'll not get it without a willingness to go up and a willingness to stay in the cloud long enough to strip you from even the best of your human knowledge about God, about his way, that we might come to him stripped as we are before him as he is and then I will give,
22:56 -  then I will entrust. You'll always bear with you after that moment something of the sense of God's dread, God's awe, God's majesty, God's sovereignty, God as God. This is what we need to communicate to men, not a formula but what God is in himself. Be there and then I will give. What a contrast for
23:30 -  us down here wanting to obtain something much more cheaply by putting out time and taking courses. I'm not deprecating that. There's a value. I'm only concerned that you should not think that it's the all in all, that yet there's something beyond and above for which this is a help but not the thing
23:53 -  in itself. There's still a necessity to go up, a necessity to be separated from even the elders that could not come up to the mount but Moses himself alone with God himself alone and to be smoked out. Why? Because so much of the knowledge that we hold that's correct is correct technically
24:14 -  but it has not been made for us truth. It's got to come from God out of communion with him to be the kind of knowledge that should be conveyed to men or else we're just passing off secondhand what we have obtained secondhand and then becomes thirdhand until finally, what is it? The world is
24:36 -  dying for the want of the knowledge of God as God. It is steeped in deception. It has no fear, therefore it's capable of violence, ugliness, behavior of such an unGodly kind that even would embarrass animals. God is absent from the consideration of men because we have not made
24:57 -  him known, because we don't know him well enough to do it. Come up unto me into the mount, be there, and I will give tables of stone, aloha commandments which I have written that thou mayest teach them. This is the condition. This is what proceeds, the teaching is the coming up and the being there.
25:37 -  So we know what happened when Moses came down with the tablets of the law. What will happen when we come down? We're likely to find the people of God in the same posture of idolatry and naked carnality and sensuality dancing around the idol of their own making. The pattern here is remarkable.
26:00 -  The holiest moment in the life of God's man and the first thing that he finds in coming down with the commission of God, having been with God receiving the law, is the people of God given over completely to idolatry, sensuality, carnality, and Moses and his great indignation smashed the
26:22 -  law. It was too holy to put before such a people, but the anger and the indignation that Moses expressed was not his own, it was God's. This is not a man acting out of peak, out of personal disappointment, out of his own emotion and personality. It's a man who has been in such
26:42 -  communion with God that what his response is now is God's, and God therefore never censured him for breaking the tablets of the law, though you would think it's a desecration, because it was God's own act through a man who was so in union with God that he expressed God in that crisis
26:59 -  moment. And the next thing we read if we had the time is Moses berating and chastising the people and grinding that golden calf to powder and making them drink it. They had to drink their sin. They had to be conscious of what they were doing and you don't hear a whimper of anybody taking issue
27:22 -  with Moses in that requirement of the same people who had murmured against him in the wilderness time and time again. Who were you to think that you're the only one who knows God, that you we also know God blah blah blah blah. Not a whimper, because when he made that requirement it was in
27:37 -  the authority of God and to have contended against Moses would to have been contended to have contended against God. And the question is where did he have the authority to command an erring nation to drink its sin. That's what you obtain when you come up before him. Not that you're coming up to obtain
28:00 -  authority or obtain anything that will aid you in your ministry, but something is necessarily imputed and conveyed by that one who will be willing for the struggle and the effort and the sacrifice to come up and to be there. He will express the authority of God. He will express the indignation
28:22 -  of God. He will be in union with God and acting for God as God. And that's what our generation needs. And yet the Bible says of Moses he was the meekest man upon the face of the earth. What? Smashing the tables of the law, commanding the people to drink their sin, the meekest man on
28:44 -  the face of the earth. And you know who wrote that? Moses himself. Well how can he be meek if he speaks of himself? He must be the worst egotist to describe himself as the meekest. No, he's so meek that he's not even aware that he's in any way celebrating himself. He's only stating what
29:02 -  the grace of God has formed in him. That coming into God's presence has dissolved any self-consciousness of himself as apart from God. And therefore it is Moses, in the fullness of Moses the man, really freed from the thing that had imprisoned and lessened the reality of Moses. So he who
29:29 -  loses his life in God's presence finds it. The man who came down the mount was a much greater and fuller Moses than the one that went up. And that man can lead Israel to the threshold of the promised land. So we need to covet something of this design. We see it in Paul in Galatians
29:51 -  who waited for the when of God that Christ would be revealed in me. Not only to me but in me. Something imparted, the reality, the sense of God. For how can a man be an apostle who has not this to communicate? And that's what Moses who is also an apostle communicated because it was
30:16 -  obtained in the same way when God beckoned him to come up and be there. This is not a man who chose for himself to go up the mount at his choosing but waited for the commandment and the invitation that came from God in the when of God's timing. These things are written for
30:37 -  our admonition upon whom the ends of the age have come. And if ever God has given you and what you represent in the realm from which you come and are acting as an antidote and a corrective to, what shall I call it, the charismatic, casual, the nature of our charismatic generation which
31:03 -  has in many ways sliding God without even being aware of it, thinking that they're celebrating God, you're receiving it this morning. Pulling God, citing from the New Testament in Galatians with Paul and the Old Testament in Exodus for Moses to show us that dimension and reality of
31:25 -  God that would temper us and keep us from being the victim of our age and reflecting the casual, charismatic spirit that pervades the body of Christ today and is considered the best of what the Church is. The best of what the Church is, in my opinion, is not good enough and has not moved
31:43 -  Israel to jealousy. See what the final testing is? Are we exhibiting something that will so powerfully impress Jews because it is so authentically the statement of the God of Israel? And coming from Gentiles will blow their minds. It's the last thing they expect from you. They expect persecution,
32:04 -  they expect discrimination, but when they see from you something of the undeniable character of the God of Jacob and of Israel that was communicated to Moses and to Paul, what shall they say? Well, we've been too lazy, too indifferent, too impatient, too quick, too shallow, too man-centered,
32:25 -  too man-receiving, too man-pleasing to exhibit this reality to the Jew first and also to the Greek. The Gospel is not a formula. The Gospel is the communication of him as he in fact is by those who know him and keep that relationship alive and true, jealously because they have gone
32:49 -  up. Because even when they come down, they're still up. They've never forgotten. They always live in the sense and the memory of the awesomeness of God as God. So I can't tell you
33:12 -  how often I'm crying out to God for this very thing. Lord, whatever it is that you convey through me, whatever instruction, whatever inspiration, and you've given me, my God, precious and prized things to communicate, please with it, communicate the sense of yourself.
33:37 -  The church does not know, my God, it's shallow. It's light. Your fear and the awe of you is absent from our experience. We're reflecting the spirit of the world and what we think is promoting your purpose. We do not know your Lord as we ought.
34:03 -  So I thank you, my God, in the paradigm and the pattern of what you required of your great men of old, the Moses of old, the great prophet-apostle, the liver of his nation, and the great apostle Paul, and Arabia at desert time are going up,
34:25 -  awaiting in the smoke, and obtaining, my God, of that sense of yourself that comes before every other consideration that we so desperately lack. Save us, Lord, from shallowness. Save us from being facile, glib, having the right answers, knowing how to do it, how to conduct meetings,
34:43 -  how to use the overhead projector, how to method. Give us a sense of God, Lord, a sense of yourself. Reveal Christ to us and in us and through us to a world dying for that reality, for God is reality. And we thank you, Lord. Precious God on high, may we hear your voice beating us. Come up and be there.
35:17 -  Before you start off in your ministry, before you promote this and do that, be there. Come up and gain the sense of me with no holes, no strings attached, no qualification. Then I'll give you. May we hear that invitation, Lord, and may, in fact, this morning and the entire sum and substance of
35:35 -  it be exactly that. That's what this is. This is not a teaching, a how-to. This is the Lord saying, come up unto me. Be there. Be there. That you might be a witness unto me, that you might be the that you might be a witness unto me, that you might be the reality of God,
35:59 -  that you might be the thing in yourself. Thank you, Lord, for our ministers, our matinee idols, the men of faith and power who mysteriously disappear after they have given us their impressive
36:17 -  ministries and we lose sight of them. We don't see them in their long johns. We don't see them in their bathrobes. We don't see them in the grit and the reality of the everyday. They are the men of faith and power, some kind of magical thing that we can't hope to obtain until they fall in sin
36:35 -  because they did not have the counsel and the oversight and the correction that they could have received through a body had they related to the body and been there. There's a whole force mystique in professionalism and being the man of faith that is wrong
36:56 -  because they're afraid of relationship and they hide. So to be their Lord, to show the world reality, sanity by a people who are there for each other and with each other as they are by the grace of God without phony appearances. Thank you, my God,
37:20 -  is a life-saving thing. May the church exhibit it because it is there for each other, because it has been there for you. Thank you, my God, and maybe in fact the going up is the struggle in the church to become a community of such a depth of personal relationship
37:39 -  that we will not see you as God except that we will find you in the body, in that relationship being there. That that will be the mount and that will be the revelation that we can communicate to men. Save us from being cowards and hiding ourselves, putting on airs and appearances.
38:00 -  Thank you for what the church is, a place of sanity and reality that we can be to each other what we are by the grace of God and there to be brought from grace to grace, grace to grace, faith to faith, glory to glory. Thank you, Lord, precious God on high.
38:26 -  Tell the Lord you're willing to go up. Whatever that means, you're willing, tell him you're willing to come into the cloud in which all that you have counted so important that you have worked hard to obtain, you're willing to allow to dissipate that you might
38:41 -  receive it afresh directly from him as reality, as real knowledge and not something gleaned from a cassette. Repent for the church that hides itself and is fearful, timid, afraid of relationship, doesn't know how to be there,
39:04 -  phony, pumping itself up, creating its own aura through its own music, through its own misuse of worship to create a mood that actually robs us of the possible possibility of the reality of God. Pray for the church, pray for yourself, pray for Scotland, pray for this location,
39:28 -  this nothing place. Why is God speaking like this here? Because this morning we prayed that not only would it be a geographical center of Scotland but a spiritual epicenter and out of that center will go forth the reality that is alone, life-saving to a nation in desperate need
39:47 -  into the world. Pray for it. In your church, in this nation, we acknowledge that we're a part in the sense of its sins and violence as well as all that you've been doing. God forgive us. God take us up.
40:34 -  Take us up and give us the real thing. As has happened before in this nation, do it again. Let heaven come down and let the real thing be experienced. Let us be ministers to bring the reality and the real thing to you. Lord, we thank you for places such as this.
41:00 -  Thank you. Thank you for places to study but we thank you for men to bring the reality that you've sent in for our instruction. We give you thanks, Lord. Lord, the provision of God that apostles
41:16 -  and prophets ordained and sent of you are to the body to tell us where we are, to mirror our conditions and let us see what is our condition that we might repent and be redirected. Oh God, I give you thanks. Thank you, Lord.
41:34 -  I'm sending you, sir. Lord, help us to take this word to ourselves. Thank you, Lord. May we hear your voice this morning. Surely what you are about is more than instruction.
42:04 -  Surely that what you are about is a call to come up and to be there. Help us to understand, my God, that your righteous indignation that smashed those tablets is very much the same as the Jesus who upturned the moneychangers' table, who is the Lamb of God as Moses was the meekest of men.
42:25 -  And we can't reconcile that. We think that to be meek is to walk on eggshells because we have a phony human understanding of self-effacing humility. That's a play acting. As a brother said, it's a salesman's humility to make the sale. But the true humility of God will overturn moneychangers'
42:43 -  tables and smash the tablets of the law when the Spirit of God requires it. For humility, in the last analysis, is total submission to the desire of God, whatever it is, even when it is violent against men, because it does not consider men but God only. Oh, bring us to that meekness.
43:07 -  Bring us to that unfeigned humility. Save us from play acting in the phony thing that so impresses men that you see right through it. And not only do you see through it, the powers of darkness see through it. And they know that we're not a people that they need to fear. For the only thing that
43:23 -  they will fear is the authenticity of God himself in man. And any play acting, religious and pseudo spiritual, is completely in their sight and nothing to be reckoned on. Thank you, Lord. Bring us to the reality of God, which is the humility of God and the indignation of God, when you shall call
43:43 -  for it. For you alone are all in all. Thank you. We want to be like you, my God, and formed by you and out from your presence. Thank you, my God. John chapter three to Nicodemus, no man can ascend who is not first descended.
44:06 -  Even the son of man, he said, who is in heaven. What? He's in Jerusalem talking to Nicodemus and he's saying, who is in heaven in the same moment he's on earth in Jerusalem speaking to a man? Yes, he's on the top of the mount. He's in the presence of God always while he's yet in the place
44:25 -  of ministry and requirement. And that is the mystery of the faith and the communication of God that one even Nicodemus may we be in heaven, even while we're in Scotland, because that is the nexus and the place of our reality continually, even while we're in the earth and in the place of ministry
44:44 -  and service. That is the faith. Thank you, my God. Oh, precious God, heaven more heaven. Thank you, Lord, by those who can communicate it for they have their essential being in that place before you.
45:06 -  What a different faith that is than what has been purveyed to us. Thank you, my God. Oh, bless these children, Lord. Give them an enlargement of faith and a courage to believe for this. Thank you, my God, and to exhibit it to the salvation of many.
45:40 -  Oh, yes, Lord. For that alone is sanity. Thank you, Lord. Life saving reality. Thank you, Lord. Give us the heart to wait for the but when of God, even though we seem foolish
46:16 -  and empty and are unimpressive before Christians. Thank you, my God, that we might say with Paul that what we received is not of man or by man, but from God. Thank you, Lord. Willing for our Arabias, willing for our desert experience. Thank you, my God. Oh, form sons and
46:39 -  daughters, my God, who show you forth and are not glib, facile, manipulators, and purveyors of some cheapy, charismatic substitute that serves the purposes of men and leaves you without glory. Have a generation, a final generation, that are in keeping, my God, with the verity of old. Thank you, Lord.
47:07 -  Save us from this evil generation, this present age. Uh-huh. Grant the birth, my God, of apostolic desire on the part of children in this room and those who'll be hearing this tape, who are already being groomed for a kind of success of
47:42 -  a lesser kind. Make them divinely discontent with that lesser ambition, willing to reject it as something loathsome and to wait upon God in the time that is required according to his own wisdom for the real thing, that they might be in their generation what Paul was in his own and Moses in
48:06 -  his. Thank you, my God, willing for the painstaking work of God in the formation of their life, their character, their ministry, their knowledge of view, that they might stand for something, my God, of this ultimate apostolic kind that makes all the difference, that when they go forth they turn the
48:28 -  world upside down. They controvert the values of this world. They make it clear and apparent that it's this present evil age soon to be succeeded by an age to come that is millennial and glorious and can excite the hope of men who will wait for it and reject this filthy world. Lord, let there be
48:51 -  a birthing of authenticity in the church. Thank you, my God, and a recognition of how we're being processed and fitted and formed glibly and easily for something impressive but less than this ultimate that the end of the age so desperately calls for. And I thank you for the invisible cloud of
49:12 -  witnesses overhead this morning who are pulling for us knowing that something was being transacted today that is of ultimate worth and that even my own Jewish mother is in that cloud pulling with the saints, my God, of old who have sacrificed and suffered in this very land
49:31 -  for the reality for which they're yet waiting not being complete without us. So we thank you, Lord, because there will be a day when Jews will be sifted through this Scotland. Move from place to place and having to see in each place the reality that you have been setting
49:49 -  before us today. That's something religious that men can perform and compose their faces and look beatific and pious for they will be unmasked by Jews in their unkempt condition that the only thing that can stand and endure in that test is God, the love of God, the truth of
50:07 -  God, the mercy of God, the patience of God that is unfeigned and that will save them. That will bring them into the bond of your covenant and the rod of your authority that they might return as the redeemed of the Lord who have met God face to face in the wilderness of Scotland in the out of
50:24 -  the way places where you have prepared for them a people who know you and make you known as you are indisputably. So I thank you, Lord. Oh, watch over this investment this morning, my God. You have sown this piece of earth with your word. Watch over it. Let it not fall to the ground. Stir
50:46 -  the hearts of these children, my God, to a new jealousy for the real thing, the ultimate thing, the authentic thing that terrifies the powers of darkness and blesses the sons and daughters of men unto salvation. Thank you, Lord, even the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
51:07 -  Thank you for the great mystery and the great fulfillment. Thank you, Lord. Thank you, my God, that we have satisfied ourselves with a lesser intention because we have lost this vision and this sense of our relatedness to that people Israel.
51:22 -  Oh, thank you, my God. Oh, restore, my God, revive, establish. We thank you. The ancient ways make them known again. The byways, Lord, the paths of God. Thank you, Lord, restore to this generation. Thank you, my God, the unbroken continuum of the faith
51:46 -  from Sinai to Paul and to this final generation, an unbroken continuum of the authentic. Thank you, Lord. Precious God on high.
52:08 -  Thank you, Lord, whose heart's cry is your glory and who could wait for the but-when of God. And are willing to be fools and look foolish until it comes. Thank you, my God. Oh, glory to your great name. Thank you, Lord.
52:33 -  Lord, it's one thing to pray. It's another thing to be. But, Lord, if we don't pray, we won't get to be in the being that you intend for us. Lord, help us to give our to our hearts before you. Just expose our hearts before you. Lord, that we might come into the
52:49 -  place of being. Lord, we can hear this and realize that how far we make ourselves fall short. But, Lord, you're the only one that can make up the difference, if you like. That can give us the eternal life flowing from God. That enables us to be. Lord, we can't be it of ourselves, Lord,
53:07 -  and we can't be it by pulling up our socks or pulling up our own bootstraps, Lord. It can only happen as it's given from heaven. But, Lord, it's given in response to our response to you. Lord, help us to make our responses to you that we can't be. Holy One, thank you, Lord,
53:30 -  for choosing the foolish thing, the weak thing. This bunch of nondescript souls in this forsaken place. Where is it? A little dot somewhere. And there, my God, you have made this kind of deposit. How like you to choose the foolish, the weak. Thank you, Lord, that you
53:50 -  might be glorified. Confound your adversary. Thank you, my God. So do we bless you for the privilege and choose to be weak, choose to be foolish, that your strength, your honor, and your glory might be perfected and exhibited all the more out of the frailty and foolishness of what we are in
54:11 -  ourselves. Thank you, Lord, for your choosing. Thank you, Lord. That picture in one of the prophets about the wine sitting on its leaves and that the wine has to actually be poured from vessel to vessel. There's something of an outpouring of ourselves before the Lord.
54:31 -  We won't be perfected and we're going to pour out all of what we are, but somehow in that pouring and pouring out to God, we're exposed to God and God is able to change. The dregs are removed and it's refined. Lord, I pray that that pouring out that somehow it was mentioned earlier
54:52 -  that we can give to other people, that we can inspire, that we can be open with other people, that this is the body of Christ what we have built, that it will help people we know, the people we love, the people we're in fellowship with, that they somehow will catch this, that we will catch
55:13 -  it so strongly. That, Lord, something new will start, an openness, a loving, a caring in the body of Christ. Jesus said, as you love one another, so people will know you're my disciple. Lord, let us get that feeling. That's the being there. Being there with people. Lord, it's not only those
55:40 -  unsubstantiated people we know and love in fellowship, in our churches. Lord, that need that reality, that need the love and compassion that you are. Help us, Jesus. Thank you, Lord. To have you so strongly in us as we are. Thank you. The wine overflows.
56:01 -  The wine is poured into other cups that will then be passed round. Lord, it's a sacrificial, futuristic thing. Thank you. Thank you, my God. Thank you, Lord.
56:44 -  Thank you, Lord. Holy one. Holy one.
57:18 -  Thank you, holy one. Thank you, Lord. Say he says what?
57:42 -  He said, now you know why I asked you to pray as you did something like 16 or 17 years ago. First of all, um
58:13 -  but I proposed a prayer 16 17 years ago um this used to be the center of the droves roads you know what droves roads are where the
58:31 -  people from the north and the west brought their cattle there were no proper roads and they brought their cattle and they had the stock to take themselves to the markets and between king you see and here's a mower was a farm that was the what did they call it the trist where
58:50 -  the drovers set up camp and all this that is now flooded um was lush pastures and the cattle were all fed and resuscitated from their hard journeys from the north and the west and fattened up for two or three weeks and then driven south to the garden so into the markets and God said to us
59:15 -  the droves roads have been closed for many years i wanted to pray that these droves will be open but pray for the opening of the spiritual and for about a year helped by various other people we prayed those prayers we went to this the place of the trist and we prayed we proclaimed
59:36 -  towns and we broke bread and brought Jesus into the whole concept of the spiritual control rooms to authority over the the demons that were keeping the clothes i mean God said that's you that's it if you open the road and he was saying why did you come here i believe that
59:57 -  is the reason because this is now the area from which spiritual knowledge can be the fattening princess it may well be that what had been once a passage for cows will now be a passage for jews who were
01:00:14 -  brought out of the northern places and that this will be a place to be flattened to be spiritually fed to be established before they can be sent on to conclude their pilgrimage as returning to zion as the redeemed of the lord with everlasting joy upon their heads mourning and sighing fleeing
01:00:30 -  away this is a place where we'll be fed with they'll be given a spiritual understanding be encouraged and rested before going on there'll be a place of assemblage and i'm getting an unction on my head as i say that so lord we just pray blessing that you have appointed this
01:00:49 -  piece of earth and established a pattern of it out of its history now in the last days not for cattle but for your people Israel to be gathered up from the north to south the east and the west to be brought through to assemble to be fed to be encouraged to be strengthened to complete their
01:01:06 -  pilgrimage to zion by a people here who can feed them who know you and can make you known so we ask your blessing lord oh let this morning be more significant my God that we can imagine historic and and what it configures for the future and we thank you lord that you have appointed
01:01:25 -  this blessed these children who are living and will be employed in this area for those purposes thank you my God thank you lord who is efficient for these things how like you to take a class and to go beyond and exceed anything for which we could have thought or hoped
01:01:45 -  that we also did that we ourselves did not know so do we bless you so praise the lord
01:02:45 -  so i went to a school for 80 percent of the people i had my headmaster i was at a private school my father
01:03:03 -  various things he did not want to keep me there my headmaster was jewish going me up simply not school by monday again but if you are a school and he and then i was led to the lord well my first step mother was jewish as well
01:03:24 -  i was led to the lord by a jew i spent my first two and a half years as a christian and i have lived with the desire in my heart and the knowledge of my heart that God has a purpose for and the purpose of saving is for the sake of the jews because my life has been blessed by the
01:03:42 -  jews funnily enough and i've always thought regarding the sense to his role maybe he's going to bring it again and today that's what the thoughts just lay in my heart that in my heart was a desire to bless the jewish nation worth Jesus christ Jesus the christ and i've always thought
01:04:05 -  how am i going to get there lord i don't just want to go to those colleges it doesn't it may not necessarily be that i am they will be expelled to all nations
01:04:19 -  and that the communication of this has come to you through a jew the lord the lord has a mystery oh yeah tremendous
01:04:35 -  uh unfortunately we don't have copies of my holocaust book you can ask for it we can send it to you from the states or through john but there's a chapter in that book called Israel's final chastisement and future glory in which i describe the holocaust yet to come that will
01:04:53 -  have its inception in Israel of an explosive kind and drive out its present inhabitants the residue may be left behind but there'll be a vast expulsion again into the nations in flight from terror or in captivity and that will trigger an anti-semitic reaction to jews worldwide
01:05:14 -  because God says in amos chapter 9 i will sift you through all nations and not so much as one colonel will fall to the ground there is a mass exodus of jews through all nations in the last days and in that movement is for the remnant of them a confrontation with the lord as he has seen
01:05:34 -  in those who have prepared a place of refuge for them for such a revelation that the woman will flee into the wilderness where a place has been prepared for her and where she is fed for three and a half years that's why we are where we are for the last 25 years and one of the remotest
01:05:49 -  sections of north america in the wilderness of our nation and as we travel in it and the lord brings us into connection with others who have that call there's a network already being established of places of refuge for jews in flight worldwide so they will be coming through how do
01:06:06 -  you know that odd well not the least of the reasons that i know it is that i'm here my time and use is so rare so exquisitely determined by the lord that i know that i know that where i am is the place designated or i would not be there so you can count on it with confidence the lord has
01:06:25 -  fingered this place and we will we will see this drama enacted here future future surpassed pattern but there's one last future and massive fulfillment globally in all nations
01:06:55 -  and that's the message that i'm proclaiming that that even messianic believers don't want to hear that there's a devastation future for the present state of Israel and that that state will come into judgment and devastation
01:07:08 -  you'll find that on our website articles Israel yeah time of jacob's trouble and jacob is worldwide
01:07:22 -  that little booklet the 50p one Israel the church and the last days touches upon that please but if you want the holocaust book i'll get signed with the facility of course a box of them so if you would put on that pad that's over there your name and address
01:07:47 -  it's a future project to put out a book on this subject which we've never had you can pray for that something is in formation for a book on Israel in the last days beyond this little pamphlet size
01:08:04 -  but we want to be very careful and the whole formation of that it needs to be birthed more than written so
01:08:33 -  he takes the same perspective but he doesn't see the worldwide aspect of it but he sees the expulsion from Israel you can pray for us in the almost seven weeks of our time of ministry that yet remains
01:08:53 -  we're going from here to edinburgh and london and then berlin and a few cities in germany one on the baltic coast where i've not been in about 20 years because i think these seaports are very significant including the places from which john comes in the fishing village of
01:09:16 -  mcduff and bounce and then we're going to czechoslovakia and then we're flying from prog to musco and we'll be in three other cities central asia with the preparation for those going into ministry and then into the baltic nations of latvia and lithuania and then into poland
01:09:40 -  with a concluding conference in warsaw for polish and german ministers who have just been brought to auschwitz we're speaking to them for three days because the woman who's arranging this the german woman feels that there's a corridor coming through poland the germans which jews will be fleeing
01:09:59 -  and then a final week of activity in germany before going home march 6th in a trip that is eight weeks long and for which we appreciate your prayer we've already been in holland and we've had times choice times like this it was really been precious
01:10:29 -  at least there was a few years ago there was prophecies or talk about houses being prepared yeah but at that time i thought it was just people come jews coming out of russia yeah you know that they were going to need and those countries they were going to need houses