The Making of an Apostle

00:00 -  Are we on here? So Lord, we bless you Thanking you for the day that you have made
00:08 -  That you're a God of purpose and intent Nothing aimless my God, but all Divinely calculated works to walk and before the foundation of the earth were laid
00:21 -  And we ask my God That work that fulfillment this morning and today To whom much is given much is required Lord, we know that and yet we're asking that much be given
00:35 -  So come my God and surprise us and Give us more than we could have imagined And let it be a vital impartation Lord to the life of this people to this work
00:50 -  To have enduring consequence something Foundational so we bless you Lord come my God by your spirit revive us Send the word into our midst the living word and receive now already our gratitude
01:07 -  For such blessing and such privilege Thank you Lord be the alpha and the omega of this day and this time you began it last night and continue my God with the
01:19 -  And continue my God with the Conclusion that you have in mind as the God alone who knows the end from the beginning We thank you Lord. We're privileged in Jesus name
01:35 -  Well, you can turn to the book of Galatians chapter 1 Ah Ah
02:21 -  So this will be a first for me, I don't know that I've ever Shared from this book or this portion of that's something that was quickened in my early morning time
02:34 -  And we know that The substance of Galatians is Paul's jealousy over the purity of the faith that has been threatened by Judy Isis and those who have sought to
02:48 -  Require of Gentile converts Certain acknowledgments like circumcision that would Controvert the gospel and rob it of this grace
03:02 -  So that's the general setting and that's why I think Paul takes pains To establish his own qualification as an apostle
03:11 -  We're going to be listening to that all through The book of Galatians chapter 1 Let's let's read from chapter 1
03:35 -  Paul an apostle Not of men neither by men but by Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead So as we read when we're not only reading a statement of Paul
03:51 -  Appropriate to the Galatians, but read this also as a pattern and as a paradigm Paul is not conscious of What he is setting forth in his word that would be applicable for all generations. He's thinking only of instructing Galatians
04:08 -  But every word that issues from him Is a pattern paradigm of Galatians Of what pertains to that which is apostolic so right from the first crack
04:20 -  Paul an apostle not of men neither by man But by Jesus Christ and God the Father He's concerned to show
04:30 -  That his credentials are in God alone because he has rivals who also purport to be apostles and who are making a grand show of it and So the issue of recognizing who in fact a true apostle is is not just an issue of ego or vanity
04:49 -  But the issue of preserving the integrity of the faith And so Paul is going to show that what he is and what he expresses is from God and not from man And if that's required for the apostle, it's equally required for us
05:08 -  For us And to the degree that we have condescended to men We weaken or threaten or contradict
05:17 -  That which is apostolic in its character as coming from God and by God that it might also be for God Which is really in some kind of opposition with the tenor
05:30 -  T-e-n-o-r of our charismatic age which I think is exceedingly man-centered And approval centered and crowd centered And has not this exclusive and jealous and sole insistence upon God
05:50 -  So we're going to find this reality again. We'll have to find it as Paul sets it forth and this is what makes Paul Paul this Single-minded singular jealousy for that which comes from God and is for God and is not in any way tainted or corrupted by man
06:19 -  So But through Jesus Christ and God the father who raised him from the dead And all the members of God's family who are with me
06:28 -  Even here in a kind of an unconscious way Paul can't help but throwing in a reference to the resurrection Seeing that that phenomenal
06:38 -  Miracle is foundational to the whole reality of the faith and of the church He's not self-consciously employing it. It seeps out of him This is out of the genuineness
06:50 -  Of his apostolic character that he cannot help but even inadvertently in passing making resurrection to the resin Making reference to the resurrection of which he is so much himself the expression if Paul is anything He's the man of the resurrection
07:07 -  So to the churches of galatia grace to you peace from God our father the lord Jesus Christ Who gave himself for our sins to set us free from this the present evil age? according to the will of God
07:19 -  And father who to whom be the glory forever and ever amen. I don't even know if we're ever going to get out of these first Introductory statements because already just in this introduction and in this greeting Paul has set forth the gospel Having mentioned resurrection
07:39 -  And now the crucifixion Caved himself for our sins To set us free from this present evil age. Here's a real glimpse into the apostolic mindset
07:49 -  our thought that The gospel and the atonement has set us free from sin we can find an eternal place in heaven but the early church saw
08:02 -  What God has done more in the context of the conflict between the powers of the air that rage For the souls of men and vie for dominion over God's own creation So to be freed from
08:16 -  Through the gospel is to be freed from the clutches of that kingdom of darkness that pervades all the world And set us free from this present evil age Now if you're really a bible student and you ought to be
08:31 -  It means that you don't over every word that proceeds from the mouth of God So when Paul uses a phrase like the present evil age he's making a statement of uttermost significance
08:47 -  What's the what's the significance of the word present? What does he have to say present evil age isn't that unnecessary isn't redundant isn't it obvious that the evil age is this this When he uses the word present it already implies that it's transient that it will one day pass
09:08 -  that the Apocalyptic act has already taken place that has set in motion through the crucifixion of Jesus Those trained events that will bring in a kingdom opposite to the darkness of this present age
09:24 -  present implies transient Temporary passing There's another age and it will be enduring rather than transient and it will be glorious rather than and righteous rather than evil
09:38 -  So you see all that's implied In Paul is something like squeeze him
09:45 -  Ring him out a bit And something exudes from out of his apostolicity. This is not some self-conscious Minister who's wearing a label. He is the thing in himself
10:00 -  And here we can see it that even in the artless and unpremeditated Introduction and and What do you call it?
10:11 -  Dedication to the to the readers grace be unto you is an entire state statement Of a remarkable kind And this is a picture of what God is wanting for the church
10:24 -  The apostle and the prophet is the foundation of the church God is wanting a church like that That is not self-conscious that is not ministerial minded that even in its
10:35 -  Uh ordinariness and it's every day greetings and salutation. That's the word i'm looking for Something is expressed that cannot help but be expressed Because we are the thing in ourselves as Paul was the thing in himself
10:49 -  We are the reality And we see it in a certain way and we express in a certain way Would you have ever used that phrase now currently to describe scotland or the uk?
11:00 -  Or the world as this present evil age is it really evil for you Or is it really not bad in some of its aspects if not in most of its aspects Are you as detached and as an opposition to this present world and this age as Paul?
11:18 -  Do you see it as sinister and evil? all the more because its evil is Is clouded is is veiled and purports to be good
11:28 -  Benevolent and that makes it yet the more evil because what it is parading in and what is presenting to men is an alternative to God And therefore because of its seductive seeming
11:41 -  Benefit and benevolence it is all the more evil Paul saw right through this present evil age And you can tell just from that phrase he's looking forward to that which will succeed it and that what he's doing in his labors Day in and day out and in this letter to the galatians to help them not to lose the purity of the gospel is toward that end
12:04 -  See, this is a picture of what an apostle is and we need all the more to
12:10 -  Immerse ourselves into it because we know that one of the profound signs of the last days Are men purporting to be apostles and are not false apostles false prophets false teachers false false false false So we need to be reminded and restored to what is original
12:30 -  Given by God Paul an apostle by God and not by man not some phony Produced it's in some institution that uses apostolic vocabulary
12:43 -  Because it brings a certain air but the real thing in himself the foundation
12:50 -  of which The church itself should be established in keeping with that same character and kind Why is that the foundation because we who are the superstructure it ought equally to reflect that foundation and be like it
13:04 -  Whether we are called individually to be apostles or prophets We are all called to the church as a prophetic and apostolic entity A reality that is in opposition to this present evil age and betokens and signifies
13:20 -  And is the statement in itself of that which is to come Got the picture Praise the lord
13:29 -  I'm impressed with what i'm saying Not ever having said anything quite like this before But here I even in the way that i'm speaking and sharing
13:40 -  Something i'm replicating or showing forth that I am the thing in myself This is unrehearsed. I'm speaking of something that was quickened while you were asleep this morning And in making these observations
13:55 -  I can see the operation of the life of God as we can see it in Paul and as the world needs to see it in us and the thing that most prohibits intimidates threatens and Um
14:08 -  Puts puts aside through this reality is our own self-conscious spirituality our own self-conscious ministerial mindedness Which is so much
14:19 -  The the catching the the flavor of this present evil age. It's almost professional Self-consciousness is still self even when it's a spiritual self-consciousness So Paul is an artless. What shall I say?
14:32 -  As I think I am and i'm exhibiting Just expressing what we are by the grace of God And being freed from that kind of self-consciousness that imprisons us
14:43 -  That is stultifying and sends off and gives off a false and artificial note rather than the real and the authentic thing So praise the lord for chapter one verse one, it's a it's a book in itself if we read it rightly And verse four who gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from this present evil world as we have read
15:09 -  According to the will of God our father to whom be glory forever and ever our madam Now what shall we say about that? You want to know what an apostle is or a prophet of the foundations of the church when you scratch them deeply
15:24 -  What is their essential motive for being? What what is it that is their incentive that drives them and that will that will in the last analysis Invoke their death
15:37 -  Not of old age, but of violence It's because of what is expressed in this one verse that is lost from the consciousness of the church today Namely the glory of God forever and ever
15:50 -  See, we don't even think in terms of forever and ever it sounds to us like a rhetorical flourish like a kind of Stylistic appendage that somehow flows along with scripture. Uh-uh. This is one of the deepest and incisive
16:08 -  Reflections of what is the motivating power of the apostle and the prophet? The jealousy for the glory of God and not just as a final moment But in all moments because forever and ever is not only future it's present
16:27 -  Like for example right now today in the circle Is this to the glory of God? forever
16:35 -  Because if it is Then it's more than just a class And is that sense of the something more that distinguishes the church from everything around it that is in the world
16:46 -  We have an enhanced view Of reality that takes the ordinary the mundane and gives it and imbues it with a certain kind of
16:57 -  respect and appreciation as having to do with the glory of God and not just instruction That our every moment is charged with the prospect of pertaining to the glory of God And if it's for the glory of God now, then it's to the glory of God forever because in the realm that God
17:17 -  Occupies there is no past present and future. He's in the eternal now always And so ought we also to be We need to become in a word forever minded
17:31 -  Eternally minded not as something that we will inherit when we die But as the very mode of our present being And to see everything that the ordinary moment is set in the context of eternity
17:44 -  Imbues that moment with a significance and a charging of it that transforms it So that for the true church There's nothing ordinary
17:54 -  There's nothing commonplace. There's nothing every day every moment class conversation Sitting at the table together Is the prospect for the glory of God forever?
18:06 -  Ever we mustn't dismiss this as some kind of rhetorical flourish as a stylistic thing That that Paul and other of the biblical writers employ. It's the deepest statement of their reality They were men always living in the eternal moment
18:23 -  Always viewing something not in terms of whether it will succeed Or whether it brings us a blessing or whether we will enjoy it. Those are secondary considerations if they are considerations at all There's only one consideration. That's apostolic and that is the glory of God
18:40 -  And if it glorifies him, we'll be blessed also But if we don't make that our vantage point if we don't make that the focus of our of our being then we're going to find ourselves Acting out our lives at a lesser level. Did they like it? Did they enjoy it? Were they blessed that there were assuming it's
19:01 -  This glory of God There's a merciful provision to lift us up and out to a higher plane of being and consideration And once you're on that plane and it's the issue of God's glory, then you have to say well who can perform this
19:18 -  If it's a moment so charged with that kind of significance if it's more than instruction If this is an eternal moment that's not going to be given again and has to do with the glory of God Who knows what the consequence of this morning will be
19:30 -  In the out working of your lives and what will go forth on the tape to who knows where then Who's able to perform this?
19:40 -  Who who then can be a teacher in a situation like that who then can be a student in a situation like that? So right away then another factor is brought in The thing the factor of which Paul frequently states who is sufficient for these things
19:57 -  If we're if we're just playing at church And have and we're doing something good in the want of some other alternative. That's okay But if we're in the realm pertaining to God's glory
20:09 -  And who's sufficient for these things? then right away the issue of the life of God the resurrection the reality
20:19 -  That sustains the church and is its life becomes paramount and important I'm almost always weak. I'm almost always tired And that the reason is as Paul said that
20:37 -  The power of God That you should not be one to his message by his eloquence But by the power of God that your faith should rest in the power of God and not his
20:50 -  impressive natural attributes And so also for myself It's a kind of a humiliation
20:57 -  To feel tired weak not to have your act together Not to be clear And just to trust
21:04 -  And and let the lord by his life bring forth which I believe he's doing from the first word this morning And I trust that he will all through the day and tonight
21:16 -  Because we're called to something More than a class we're called to the glory of God forever and only his life is sufficient for that requirement For us then the issue of resurrection is more than a correct doctrine
21:30 -  For us, it's the very source of our being because who's sufficient for these things So he marveled that you are so often removed from him that called you into the grace unto of christ unto another gospel, which is not another but
21:48 -  There'd be some that trouble you it would pervert the gospel of christ But though we are or an angel from heaven preach any of the gospel unto the net which we have preached Unto you let him be accursed as we have said before so say I now again
22:01 -  If any man preach any other gospel unto you then that you have received let him be Accursed for do I now persuade men or God? And do I seek to please men for if I yet pleased men I should not be the servant of christ
22:19 -  Oh, I hope you enjoy the flavor of this And what Paul is saying
22:28 -  In verse 10. Am I now seeking human approval? I've got two bibles balanced here I'm reading the king james and then on certain places. I like the phrasing of this other Because this has a more of a contemporary ring
22:41 -  Am I now seeking human approval? If you were Paul, you would be invalidated as an apostle An apostle does not give a wrap
22:50 -  for human approval There's only one thing that concerns him that he'd be found acceptable unto God And that will take a tremendous freeing power to those of us who have been shaped in the world
23:03 -  And are tuned to the approval of men and need it And therefore consciously or unconsciously there's always 11 in the lump. There's always something of a compromising kind That prevents us
23:17 -  from wielding the sword It says in jeremiah 46 curse it is that man
23:25 -  Who does the work of God deceitfully and does at whose sword does not bring blood? That is to say You spare your hearers by taking the sting out
23:38 -  Or making it nice that it might be acceptable Because you're too much concerned with how they are hearing you and how they are receiving you you desperately and urgently need their approval
23:51 -  And it may well be tying up with last night's message The reason that the church has avoided the jews Is because there's something in the gentile church that wants jewish approval
24:03 -  I have seen this again and again. I don't know what it is But gentiles tremble for jewish approval Maybe because it's something of the
24:13 -  Place in the world that jews occupy that to have their approval is an ego gratifying thing But if we're going to be ministers to them in an apostolic and prophetic way or to anyone in the world
24:27 -  We must be absolutely impervious to the issue of whether or not we please men So this is a portrait of apostolicity which the church desperately needs Am I now seeking human approval?
24:44 -  See seeking shows An intent to obtain approval It's more than just some unconscious kind of a thing. It's very conscious
24:54 -  Paul's not seeking it He's seeking God's approval Am I trying to please people if I was still pleasing people
25:02 -  I would not be a servant of christ and I would go so far as to say you could not be a servant of christ If the pleasing of man is a component conscious or unconscious in your Need for ego gratification acceptance fear of rejection. You cannot be a servant of christ
25:21 -  You're invalidated You can bring some modicum of blessing you might make someone happy you might do something good But a servant of christ requires this absolute
25:31 -  Severance from anything that you Need as a motivation that seeks approval from men It's so it's so facto
25:41 -  You are ruled out as God's servant If you're a man seeker and a man pleaser For I want you to know brothers and sisters that this gospel that was proclaimed by me is not of human origin
25:58 -  For I did not receive it from a human source I'm reading verses 11 and 12 Nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus christ
26:10 -  Well, where does that put us we're students we're at a school we're being taught How imperative is it for us that the gospel that we preach and that we proclaim Is not given to us by man, but by God
26:27 -  And what then is the is the value or even the validity of a school? How jealous are we not to become brainwashed and uh, what's the word? Fitted in orchestrated to uh, huh?
26:43 -  Conformed to a certain expectation and that will get a certificate when we finish that we have completed the course How much do we need to guard our spirits to know that however instructive something is That the genius of the gospel the heart of the message of God cannot be taught by men
27:02 -  And must somehow be obtained in some direct communion with God himself Which is a much more difficult thing to obtain than that which you would obtain by being in a classroom It's there's a value for what is given in the classroom
27:19 -  But the ultimate knowledge of the message that we're called to bear the gospel The genius of it what it is as the statement of God cannot be taught And has got somehow to be imparted. It has got to be revelatory
27:34 -  So here Paul's experience is a paradigm a standard a pattern for all of us But are we as jealous? To avoid being indoctrinated and learning how to say the right thing
27:49 -  That prevents the the revelation of God if the lord sees That you are content with the measure of something and have the outline of it Which you have received from men and you're not jealous to have the authentic thing in itself
28:04 -  They can only forgo from God. He'll let you have what you have desired So what will you you'll parrot? You'll say the right things. You'll know the right phrases. I don't know about you. I am struck
28:16 -  Again and again with the artificiality of the language of christians I'm not persuaded. I'm not convinced that they know what they're talking about And that they have really appropriated the reality of which they speak
28:29 -  Even when they talk about the blood of christ or atonement or the cross They're saying the right thing. They're saying the correct thing, but they're not saying it correctly They're saying it by virtue of having been inducted
28:42 -  In a program of right vocabulary and have allowed that to stand for the reality, but it's not real for them and we can go along a lifetime in that unreality saying and performing and blessing and pleasing others because they are also in the same place and we're
29:01 -  Sharing the same kind of language and mentality and we are everyone out of apostolic reality And are not impressing the world let alone moving jews to jealousy When the scripture says contend for the faith once and for all given the saints
29:16 -  It's not talking about learning its doctrines It's contending for the faith for the authenticity reality That has got to come to us from God. Are we jealously seeking that or are we in fact in a school?
29:30 -  Because we want a shortcut And we want to be saved The labor and the intensity of having to seek God for what we can gain much more easily secondhand by men
29:44 -  Check your motives Put first things first don't be satisfied with some warmed over hash Because even though it's the correct language if it's not truth for you. It has become false and it will impress no one
30:03 -  Do you remember what the widow woman said to elijah when He raised her son from the dead the deathbed when he stretched himself out over that cold cadaver Eyeball to eyeball fingertip to fingertip and cried out to God
30:16 -  He wasn't performing some kind of magical deliverance in an antiseptic distance He immersed himself in the death of that son And when he stretched himself out over that prostrate body what he was really saying when he gasped and cried
30:28 -  I'm willing for the life to go out for me that it would go into him and i'm willing to to be identified with his death This is more than some little patsy formula in the name of Jesus It was an identification of the deepest kind with the death of that
30:48 -  cadaver That God honored and brought life. It was a real cry from elijah. It was not just a mechanical request He cried out three times and there are souls in this circle
31:03 -  Maybe all of us and certainly throughout all christendom who will go an entire christian life without crying out once We don't know what it means to cry out Crying out is out of the existential depths. It's out of the gut
31:19 -  And we're living superficially out of the top of our heads out of our External personality And therefore we don't have a message that's compelling because we are not the message
31:37 -  So watch out what you receive from men and be insistent and jealous for what can only come from God That this gospel that was preached by me is not of human origin I didn't receive it as a formula on how to get saved
31:55 -  And that in fact as i'm trying to say last night is exactly what has happened to our present faith. It has become a formula Much better if we would choke and splutter
32:09 -  And not be able to express the grandeur of what the gospel is then that we should Reduce it to a formula that we could glibly express because we have learned it cheaply we express it cheaply
32:22 -  Got the picture We've got to be willing to contend for the faith And not allow something to come into our vocabulary that has not a corresponding reality
32:36 -  The gospel in fact is reality The gospel is God's salvation from unreality And the whole world is unreal
32:44 -  It's living a fake thing. It's a mirage. It doesn't take eternity into consideration Its values are cheap. It's glib. It's personality-centered. It's sexy. It's blah blah blah. It's a lie It's an unreality into which the whole of mankind has been inducted
33:03 -  What is our mission to save them from the death of that? And to show them that if they continue there'll be an eternal consequence of a most painful kind So contend for the faith for the reality of God make it your own
33:23 -  That it's not of human origin nor did I receive it from a human source I didn't receive it from men nor was I taught it but I received it through the revelation of Jesus christ That could mean that a revelation given by Jesus christ or a revelation of Jesus christ
33:43 -  And you'll forgive me but as a jewish believer I sometimes stagger even at the phrase Jesus christ Because it has become itself a little patsy formula
33:58 -  A little intonation little Jesus christ says Jesus christ that as if to invoke that label sanctifies what we are about It really should be Jesus the christ Yeshua ha the in hebrew messiah
34:15 -  Jesus the christ but when you leave out the article there Jews and others think that christ is Jesus's last name That's what I thought as a jewish kid growing up
34:26 -  I don't know of any jew who's called christ. I know cohen and greenberg and But I don't know a jew by the name of christ. How can that be our messiah? It's because greek does not have the article
34:40 -  And when they translated the greek into English they left out there until finally it became
34:48 -  Jesus christ instead of Jesus the christ the messiah And so if we have allowed his name to become a formula What shall we say of the whole faith?
35:05 -  I received it through a revelation So To receive requires something to be given
35:15 -  And a revelation cannot be commanded Only God can give it and give it at his will But to whom is the revelation of God given
35:27 -  Paul says in romans 11. I would not have it to be ignorant of this mystery Lest you become wise in your own conceit What mystery is he talking about the mystery of Israel and the church which is at the heart of the church's whole reason for being
35:42 -  He said I would not have you to be ignorant Well, how how shall we be saved Because a mystery
35:50 -  Can never be taught A mystery has to be communicated as revelation our faith
35:57 -  Is revelatory It's a revealed faith Which puts the premium on God
36:04 -  Because revelation can only be given by God and all we can do is have our hat in our hands In hope that we might receive it It humbles man and it exalts God. Do you like that?
36:20 -  Well, you're a strange fish if you do To allow God the premium to be with God, what if he doesn't Act up what if he doesn't perform what if he doesn't give then you're left with your face sticking out
36:33 -  And what are you going to communicate to men? And what do you know if it has not been given? And are you willing to wait? Or are you impatient to have it now after all you're going to graduate by a certain time and and you hope then also to be
36:49 -  Ministering see What what is the pattern that is being put before us by Paul's own example Can you imagine what the church would be today if Paul was too impatient to wait for revelation
37:07 -  If he went ahead being clever as he was and learned from other men what the message is And was able in his own human ability to perform it We would not be the church today
37:19 -  We are the church as poor as we are only because Paul insisted on what could only be received from God When it is given We need to see ourselves as impatient
37:39 -  And humanly trying to appropriate something before the time Can I can remember because my faith i'm 36 years in the faith
37:49 -  When the body of christ was a novel and new Phraseology, oh, I don't know when that came out 1970s And everybody was talking about the body of christ the body of christ the body of christ like it was some novelty
38:03 -  That they were excited about because the church needs something and maybe this is what we need and what's this is the key That's been missing and everybody's the body of christ and the blah blah blah There was only one guy who didn't say boo. It was me
38:16 -  Artcats the dumb dumb knew nothing about the body of christ Nor was I going to imitate from men what I could easily have learned from them So I also could have joined the body of christ club
38:29 -  My face was stuck out as not knowing but waiting And how did God bring the revelation of the body of christ? through my Gentile wife
38:41 -  Living with a hebrew of the hebrews whose lifestyle mentality taste and values are completely opposite to mine in every not some in every point in particular
38:54 -  And it was abrasive and it was the cross and it was a suffering Because i'm a man of the tent in the altar and my wife is a woman of bric-a-brac and decoration and walls of this and pictures blah blah blah
39:07 -  clutter And I had to suffer it because our marriage was more than the issue of accommodation Our marriage was itself a mystery of jew and gentile being made into one new man
39:21 -  I learned the body of christ through my marriage through the suffering of it through the anguish through the frustration Of the differences that had to be reconciled that we might be made one and that's what the body is Now, are you willing to wait?
39:35 -  Are you willing to suffer that you might have not just a mechanical formula but an exquisite grasp an appreciation Of something that has been imparted in a revelatory way through the grit and circumstance of your life
39:51 -  Not when you desired it, but when he chooses to give it Because if you are impatient and urgent and want it now for your ministry You'll just be another cheap huckster for which they are a dime a dozen today and make sound and fury that signifies nothing
40:08 -  Give me one art cats To a thousand of these hot shots who will dissipate with the air But what issues from this one man who has waited on God for the revelation that has to be given
40:22 -  Will have a lasting and enduring consequence of which you yourself are the beneficiaries this morning Got the picture our whole age is impatient. This is the now generation instant. There's put air boiling water Pop and fizzle you can have it now. We don't know what it is to wait. We're too impatient to wait
40:41 -  We want to be gratified now Because our motive is not the glory of God, but our satisfaction even in religious and spiritual things Dum-da-dum-dum and therefore we are not apostolic
40:53 -  And therefore we are not apostolic We're just a cheapy religious counterpart to the world We're playing their game
41:01 -  We're subscribing to their wisdom And the powers of darkness that look on us and see right through us Yawn right in our face and here we are taking cities by praise and worship
41:15 -  Fancy that i'm not impressed at all You call you cause no apprehension in me you're not even to be considered You're just about some kind of culture. It's a religious thing that counts for nothing because it reflects my spirit in the world
41:31 -  And my mentality that you have imbibed and brought into your christian endeavor Oh you dear saints You need to understand the cosmic
41:44 -  Parameters of the faith, which is the conflict and the contest Between the principalities and the powers of the air the wisdom of this present evil age and the wisdom of God Who has perfected praise through the mouths of babes and sucklings so they shut the mouth of his adversary
42:02 -  That's why God works through weakness Because the powers of darkness work through strength macho Prestige power authority wealth
42:12 -  Prestige power authority wealth finance God works through foolish weak pathetic
42:20 -  inept Things of which the of whom the world is not worthy He perfects his praise and his wisdom through babes and sucklings
42:30 -  Why so that he can thumb his nose to the powers of the air whose wisdom is contrary to God's Whose way whose value system? Emphasizes power assertion impatience lust ambition fame
42:47 -  God chooses caves. He chooses stables. He chooses Israel. He chooses art cats He chooses you the weak nondescript. Nothing's the beggars whom he takes off the the dunkeeps to make the sit with princess So to stop the mouth of his adversary because she's going to triumph on the basis of that which is weak that which is lowly
43:09 -  That which is of no account God and that's what he demonstrated in his own earthly tenure Born in a stable and crucified in the dunkeap outside the city. That's the kingdom. That's the king
43:28 -  You remember what he said to peter when peter said lord let this be far from you get thee behind me you stink Poof you savor of that which is of man and not of God John chapter three or end of chapter two
43:44 -  Many believed upon him for the miracles which he performed but he would not commit himself unto them For he knew what was in man and would not give himself to man Do you despise what is in man?
43:57 -  What is of man is of satan get thee behind me satan you stink from what is of man Human opinion human values that have its origin from below and not from above you need to
44:12 -  Keep man at arm's length not just other men But your own man your own humanity and your own confidence and trust in it. You need to despise it Make it suspect and therefore only that which comes from above
44:27 -  You want revelation from God? About the faith about the gospel about the lord And you're willing to wait for it and if it doesn't come on time or at all you'd much rather
44:39 -  Be a dumb dumb and looked upon with contempt by other christians because they would expect you should know something haven't you been to school? Then you should take a shortcut merely to placate and please man Oh you dear souls
44:58 -  Because if we do what is our message We do what is our message How are we in opposition to this present evil age? We're reflecting it
45:05 -  It's impatience. It's man-centeredness Even in the name of christ We represent something other
45:12 -  Another kingdom another way another mindset another mentality another wisdom in everything It waits to be given
45:23 -  It trusts him to give It will not be satisfied or seek a cheaper and easier alternative Why does the church not know the mystery of which Paul warned that if we did not know this mystery
45:37 -  We would grow wise in our own conceit the mystery of Israel in a church Why hasn't God given us the revelation of that mystery? Because we have not sought it
45:49 -  Because we have been satisfied with our own explanations Because we are anti-jewish and don't want to know of a mystery that in the end is going to exalt that nation He sees our hearts
46:01 -  And he's not going to bestow the gem and the jewel of his revelation is like casting pearls before swine He waits to see a receptive heart that would be grateful for the revelation of the mystery And I can tell you that though i'm jewish and though I have a distinguished calling in God
46:19 -  This was not always my understanding I myself did not understand the mystery of Israel. I even opposed any talk about Israel having a destiny I was only concerned for the church in its glory. I would go to Israel every year to minister
46:33 -  But only as if I would go to any other country for the body of christ I did not understand that Israel had a distinctive purpose until God revealed it And when did he reveal it in a season of death
46:48 -  When he had dissolved our community when he brought everything down When my wife threatened divorce and suicide when I couldn't find employment I was too old and I had university degrees and I couldn't get a job as a dishwasher
47:00 -  In a season of humiliation And death and expulsion The lord began to open the revelation of the mystery of Israel when he had me enrolled in a liberal lutheran
47:12 -  Seminary when I was already in my 60s and twice twice the age of my teachers And there not because of the teachers not because of the seminary But while I was added and in the library looking for books with an assignment my eye would fall on something else
47:29 -  And the lord used that time and season of death to bring forth a revelation that is now our Prime purpose for being and communicated to the church worldwide
47:40 -  I had to wait And that it came in a season of death is not at all an accident because waiting is dying Have you tried it lately?
47:50 -  Waiting is dying And we we have very little penchant for suffering
48:01 -  Waiting is a suffering And this is at the heart of priestlyness is to wait When you read the consecration of priests in the book of leviticus
48:13 -  Of all they had to do when they were ordained as priests having been derived from the genealogy of erin and they had to be washed with water and the clothing that they had to put on and
48:25 -  Blood sprinkled all over and my what an elaborate preparation for the holy task of priesthood the last thing was They would await by the door of the tent of meeting seven days
48:38 -  The last requirement before their priesthood could be ordained was a seven-day period of waiting. What's the significance art? Seven is the number of completion if there was any impatience. Hey, when do we get with it? Boy, I want to get into this. I I'm gonna cut quite a figure as a priest
48:55 -  I've been waiting for this now for 20 years and that that that that that disqualified If there was any itch any human itch to be seen to be heard to be recognized to do disqualified That itch had to die out in a season of final waiting at the very door of the tent of the meeting
49:14 -  This is lost to our saints. This is archaic. This is Archaeological It's not part of our contemporary mindset
49:23 -  But needs to be if we are going to communicate the gospel as holy in a priestly way And revel and the knowledge that is that is only given by revelation through waiting Your impatience
49:42 -  Your itch to be seen to be heard and to do will disqualify you Paul waited He would not receive what he could easily have gained through man This gospel that I preach is not of human origin nor did I receive it from a human source
50:03 -  Nor was I taught it as a formula But I received it see it's not humble humbling receive when when it's given In the lord's time through revelation of and of Jesus christ and by Jesus christ
50:19 -  Then he goes on you've no doubt heard of my early life in judaism. Here's the contrast. I was violent Persecuting the church of God trying to destroy it I advanced in judaism beyond many among my people of the same age
50:31 -  I was far more zealous for the traditions, etc, etc What a contrast here's the man of impatience and what's the end of his religious impatience murder? What's the end of his zeal murder and persecution of christ himself Israel's own messiah
50:49 -  You want to see what the ultimate logic is? Of being wound up and doing your own thing by your own zeal in the name of God Is to persecute and to murder the very God you're purporting to serve
51:02 -  Of what a what a before and after in saul and Paul To go from impatient zeal To a priestly waiting upon God for that which is given by christ of christ for christ
51:19 -  That makes the apostle the apostle You Then we come to the wonderful verse but when God there's the when there's the but
51:35 -  But when God Who had set me apart before I was born? And called me through his grace
51:42 -  Was pleased to reveal his son in me or to me so that I might
51:50 -  Proclaim or preach him among the gentiles. I did not confer with any human being I did not confer with man Nor did I go up to drusim to the religious capital of the charismatic world
52:11 -  To those who were already apostles before me, but I went away at once into arabia the desert I went where there's nothing stripped dry barren location I didn't want to have any influence from anything that would color or affect my understanding
52:32 -  Even not only from man, but even from nature I went to a place that was absolutely barren me and God And to wait there for three years in what God would give me by revelation
52:45 -  You see what goes into the making of an apostle How much are you willing should go into you in the making of you? How much has gone into me in 36 years
53:01 -  How many for how long a time was I so unseen and unknown and unheralded when the lord brought us to northern, Minnesota Which is our arabia That people thought I was dead
53:11 -  What happened to this art cast that's scintillating jewish personality That we thought would be the jewish billy graham And was a real charismatic darling on katharine colman's television program and full gospel circles. The guy has dropped completely out of sight
53:25 -  We haven't seen or heard from him for years. Has he died? In a certain sense. Yeah God sent him to arabia
53:33 -  Dare to wait there to be dealt with in a stripped environment stripping environment Because an apostle and a prophet is not made in a day There's a remarkable investment of God over a period of time through seasons of trial and suffering
53:52 -  I mentioned last night oswald chambers. How many people here read him? only one Oswald chambers my utmost for his highest
54:02 -  Oh classes dismissed you're I'm wasting my time You've got to read him daily the man's exquisite
54:11 -  the depth of his understanding of the subtleties of flesh and soul and The issues of faith and ministry are superb In fact a lot of what i'm sharing today
54:22 -  Started by my reading of oswald chambers this morning because his text was galatians chapter one That's how I got into the whole subject through oswald What is the name
54:33 -  My utmost for his highest it's a daily devotional reading The man died when he was 36 37 38 but his wife took
54:44 -  Painstaking notes of all of his statements when he was the president of the bible college When he was the chaplain in egypt during world war one And generations of saints have been blessed out of their socks
54:56 -  By the depth and the apprehension of the reality of this faith as I don't know anyone that has matched him I cannot live without my reading in this day every day of oswald chambers my first devotional reading I have three other sources, but he's my first and it's remarkable how often
55:15 -  His statement like today triggers something or his corresponds to something else that the lord is quickening and Gives you something fresh from the throne of heaven But here's my point
55:28 -  I said last night oswald chambers went through a dark night of the soul Read his biography the man agonized
55:37 -  for the longest period of time at the very same time when people were complimenting him for his religious and spiritual accomplishment He himself knew that though he was making an impressive outward performance. He did not have the corresponding reality within
55:54 -  And he would not have it until God had dealt with him in a long dry season of the soul his arabia That when he came out of that he knew what he knew what he knew How many of us are willing for a suffering like that waiting is more than twiddling your thumbs
56:13 -  Waiting is arabia waiting is dry places waiting is barrenness And there's every temptation to avoid it Cheap fizz cheap soda cheap this cheap drink instant this instant that and we want to do the same thing with the faith
56:28 -  And we have not recognized what a jewel this is. This is not a cheapie This is a life-giving message that alone has the power to break people out of the unreality, which is death in the world Whether they are jews or gentiles to those who can convey to them the alternative reality, which is of God the gospel
56:49 -  And there's more than a formula that can only be obtained when it is given This is the man who had violently persecuted the church in a seal, but when God what does pray are you marking this? I had an interpreter
57:13 -  In check is the locket where john and I are going soon in a few days When they came up to the platform to be my interpreter He came up with one of these little mini bibles with fine print. I thought oh
57:24 -  And when he opened it, there was not a mark in the book I thought this guy's going to be a dud and he was How can you have a bible in that market?
57:32 -  How can you not put an exclamation point a bracket? A yellow marking an underlining an asterisk to bring your eye to attend To some key words of key phrase, but
57:45 -  When God have you got that? I got that marked when God Speaks volumes
57:52 -  It's the God who is sovereign It's the God who is God and we cannot command or compel him for our convenience. Hey get with it lord I'm getting old now. I'm 35 40. Shouldn't I be doing something?
58:07 -  People are paying the bill shouldn't we be doing something that we can print in the newsletter that we're doing it Come on get with it But when God
58:16 -  See what a faith this is you dear saints. Are you awake? Are you up? Are you following me? When God It's the God who is God
58:27 -  Above us and our desires and our intentions and our thoughts. He's altogether other We cannot compel or cajole him for our convenience He's the lord
58:38 -  And it's when he chooses Because he's God but when God What a respect for the sovereignty of God. What a respect for the holiness of God
58:48 -  What a respect for God as God that Paul had And that's why he's an apostle. That's what an apostle is. That's what an apostolic church is Because God has been trivialized in our generation not so much by the world but by the church
59:04 -  And you guys are in danger of promoting and continuing that trivialization Because you won't wait because you don't know God as Paul did
59:14 -  Because you think he's your your handyman and your errand boy and that's why you were saved because if you believe in and call on him for his name and and Make a decision
59:26 -  Your marriage will be better. He'll find your boyfriend girlfriend your health your body your job We have such a corrupt
59:34 -  degenerate View of God as somehow a supplement for us Well, who the hell is God us or him?
59:42 -  Let's settle the issue or we have no message And we're only adding to the confusion and death that is already in the world by bringing An appropriate religious counterpart. We've got to know who this God is when God but when God
01:00:01 -  We don't know God who is Is free in himself to do what he will when he will what is our message? What are we communicating? What is our saving message to a dying world?
01:00:13 -  That will not respect and revere the God who is God because what no matter what we say They know what we are. We're communicating something without talk with our language what our persons are And if we know God as Paul, whether we speak of him explicitly or not, we're communicating that sense. I'm doing that right now
01:00:33 -  I'm speaking out of a certain knowledge Though he's not my subject Whatever the subject is the reality that we have of God is communicated
01:00:44 -  And if we do not know God as God as sovereign awesome king enthroned
01:00:52 -  The lord of glory the creator and redeemer who cannot be commanded by men but is always on time Hey, I shouldn't even be here this morning. I should be on my way to florida to bury my mother Because that was the conventional expectation of men
01:01:10 -  But why am I here because but God Because there's something more important than conventional wisdom and placating the expectations of men It's pleasing to God who is God who will often require us the exact contradiction of what the world expects
01:01:27 -  They know what they're saying. You're loveless. You couldn't be at your own mother's funeral What kind of respect is that? What kind of a son are you? What are you cheap? You couldn't afford the airfare too lazy
01:01:41 -  Now I know I had a divine appointment Someplace in scotland That I didn't know would be as significant as it's proving to be but I dare not miss it
01:01:54 -  Or miss him But God you have that but in your life This is the foundation of the apostles and the prophets not what they know about church building and government and how to resolve differences
01:02:07 -  The foundation of the apostles and the prophets is the knowledge of God as God And not as we think him to be our handyman our errand boy
01:02:17 -  But God when? When he chooses You
01:02:24 -  But when God who had set me apart before I was born listen to this Paul Called me through his grace Was pleased to reveal
01:02:38 -  His son to me And in another in term in the same greek word his son in me So that I might proclaim him among the gentiles listen to this language
01:02:51 -  There was no proclaiming no preaching no setting forth until the when came Paul could can go blue in the face. He could stomp his foot. He can pout he can cry He can say the jews are dying. The world is dying. There's no going no proclaiming until the when of God
01:03:08 -  That I might proclaim the might is the enablement and the ability to release when when comes We can't coerce God
01:03:20 -  But don't don't think that God has not his purposes in his time And that he is not heart-stricken for the condition of mankind and wants to see them delivered out of death by those whom he will send Who know him and can make him known?
01:03:35 -  He'll be on time you can be assured of it. I've never been so busy in all my life And i'm not looking for anything but it just continues to happen Books and translations and in dutch and lithuanian and my book is coming out in chinese
01:03:52 -  my first book The journal of an atheistic jew that I kept 36 years ago Hitchhiking through europe and the middle east looking for philosophical answers as a disillusioned ex-marxist. It's a perfectly appropriate book
01:04:07 -  for chinese ex-marxists But how do you get that into china? How do you get that translated the lord?
01:04:15 -  When but when God So I want you to benefit dear saints from my history And that's why he has given you older gray-haired men who have a history in God to encourage you
01:04:29 -  Because you're younger because you're impatient because you want to be approved and you want to show that the investment in sending you to school Was worthwhile and now look what you're doing Trust him he's on time
01:04:43 -  He's more anxious than you for a dying world and yet he's a master builder I ask maybe I want to go to the distillery today not because i'm a whiskey drinker But I want to see the process by which a rare vintage is produced like wine
01:05:00 -  The world knows how to do it and will not rush the process or you'll have a cheapie substitute that is only a fizz Because They let their things rested casks and oak casks that are expensive in dark places
01:05:14 -  In the arabia in which Paul himself went till finally something can be drawn off that would be exquisite And if men will do that with wine and with booze, what will God do with his saints? Is he going to make us a fizz for the world?
01:05:28 -  When they need to lift a glass that has a color and a vintage and a bouquet and a scintillation that is life-giving Trust him We prayed this morning that we would not be shaped in our own image, but his
01:05:47 -  When God who had set me apart before I was born look at the knowledge of the God's sovereignty And called me through his grace was pleased
01:05:59 -  To reveal his son in me So that I might proclaim him Among the gentiles, what shall we say call to proclaim him among the jews?
01:06:13 -  To proclaim is to set forth not an abstract message but him That he might reveal his son in me that I might proclaim him So are we ready to take a break? I don't know what your schedule is or
01:06:32 -  Yeah, we can take a break now, yeah, so I want to ask you take this question to the to the break time with you Which hymn are you setting forth What which hymn are you making known which hymn are you proclaiming or preaching
01:06:52 -  As he wrote a romantic hymn Huh Can I sing it now somebody can he sing it now
01:07:04 -  Sing it Oh But i'm not saying h y m h i m which hymn
01:07:13 -  Are you setting forth who are you presenting when you speak and teach, huh? Well, not yet. No I want you to dwell on that because the hymn that is having the wider circulation is not the true Jesus
01:07:29 -  It's a counterfeit. It's a gentilized form. It's a romantic version I'm just sharing with john's father. We both share a disgust for those paintings of Jesus and those illustrations of Jesus It's commendable art and it's an impressive figure that they draw and paint
01:07:46 -  But what who can know what the lord was and is As as to present him in a pictorial way by necessity and by definition it has got to fail However impressive it is might be as art it's got to be less than what the lord is in himself
01:08:03 -  What hymn are we presenting It's the hymn in which we have been conditioned and exposed But do we have an authentic hymn that is not some romantic projection?
01:08:14 -  What is the lord himself? He says I thank God that He was revealed in me and that revelation in me is what I make known
01:08:25 -  We've got to be jealous for the true hymn or we might find ourselves purveying Something else even in the name of Jesus Who is not a life-saving?
01:08:36 -  God but an easy to be subscribed to humanly a human construct Be jealous who is the hymn I wrote here Everywhere so falsely depicted romanticized humanized idealized gentilized
01:08:56 -  This is the son of david This is the davidic son. This is the hebrew of the hebrews in the best sense. This is not some judaized romantic thing this is the
01:09:08 -  God son in himself That has got to be formed in us got to be revealed in us got to be revealed through us Whether or not we are explicitly
01:09:19 -  preaching about him Whatever the subject is that God has given even galatians
01:09:26 -  he is Ultimately the real subject he is being set forth in whatever we say and do for God Whether or not he's the explicit subject or not. We are preaching christ
01:09:38 -  That is that measure or reality? That we have To whatever degree it's the real thing is what we are communicating
01:09:50 -  So which him are we proclaiming setting forth When was it obtained when when God have we waited for that has our when come that you might proclaim him So lord, we just
01:10:10 -  Stop at that point I don't know what the capacity of the of this class is We have perhaps already may be gone beyond that capacity
01:10:20 -  And it's a losing investment So my God, I ask that you would give us a refreshment for our souls
01:10:30 -  A capacity my God to hear the rich detailed Insightful and incisive things that you're putting before us. That is there once and for all
01:10:40 -  That has come through a prepared vessel who has waited for the when of God And is trying to instruct us in the most holy way and save us from the whole style and mood of this age which the church itself reflects unhappily
01:10:57 -  Come my God Continue give us the capacity to hear and to receive what you're wanting to give as revelation Change us by it. We thank and give you the praise in Jesus name
01:11:10 -  Okay, my brother sing your hymn go Be
01:11:48 -  Okay, take a break when you hear the whistleblower come back