The Ministry of Elijah 1 of 5

00:00 -  Elijah doesn't come from Jerusalem, he comes from Gilead. He doesn't have a doctor's degree and he's not out of the priestly lineage. He's a nothing, he's a nobody, he has no genealogy, he has nothing to give him any qualification
00:23 -  at all that Jews would be required to recognize, let alone in Ahab, and yet he's God's statement and the only statement in the final showdown between all that is inimical and opposed to God.
00:37 -  If you don't see God in this, you don't see. This is the pure genius of God being expressed and the Lord himself says, he'll not come until Elijah first come.
00:50 -  What is that suggestive of the corporate expression in the last days of the Elijah band? Where will it come from? Nowhere.
01:00 -  Nowhere. That isn't any way impressive to the world. It's the scummy backwash, it's the flotsam and jetsam of something that the world would
01:10 -  yawn at has been totally without credential and yet God puts all his eggs in that basket and we know how frail a basket it is because the moment that Jezebel, as we will read and as you know, announces that if this guy's alive by tomorrow, forget about me.
01:35 -  As I live, if I'm anything, that man will be dead by tomorrow and when he hears that, he runs for his life in fear. Now I can just tell you, and I can't explain it, there's something about the spirit of
01:52 -  Jezebel that is terrifying, I don't know what that is, but particularly to the prophetic wilderness prophet personality that what is in this little wilderness place is represented all of the quintessential elements that find expression here in Elijah and yet critical
02:14 -  for the Lord's own coming and the completion of his last days purposes. All the more because this is the Gilead of the Gentiles, this is nowhere'sville and just so like God to a point that out of such a place, and I don't say this is the exclusive
02:31 -  and only place, but at least symbolic and representative and for all effects and purposes from the point of view of our reckoning, we should see it as exclusive, that like Elijah we would say, we alone are left and if there are 7,000, and what is that of all Israel?
02:53 -  It doesn't really change how we should do our circumstance relative to those that oppose us. So the great premium is that Elijah must know his God, must hear from God, supposing the
03:12 -  man himself is deceived and thinks that he's hearing God and that this word of judgment that shall not reign nor do is more the emanation of his own personality because there's something in him that wants to get even, wants to bring judgment and don't think that there's not
03:32 -  something in us that lurks in our personalities, that likes to judge, you remember the sons of thunder who let fire fall on this village and Jesus said you know not what spirit you are of.
03:50 -  God's resident in virtually every believer, we want to judge the thing that opposes us and opposes God and remove it, but that's not always God's stratagem, it's a convenience. So when such a word of devastation and judgment comes, if it's going to be the word of authority,
04:11 -  it has got to be God's word and that's something that rises up out of our own souls, our own and for that reason God has got to winnow and sift the prophet. So getting back to authority, assuming that that is the word of God, how can a man speak
04:34 -  it with such authority as if it is his own word that will produce it and in fact it will be, unless Elijah spoke this word, even though God would desire the judgment of drought, it will not come except he speak it.
04:58 -  It's the other side of the same coin where a prophet is required to speak the word of life to the dead bones of Israel, where God commands the prophet to prophesy to these dead bones that they might live and the prophet has got to say,
05:11 -  Thus saith the Lord, O ye dead bones, be joined together and flesh be upon you. Unless he says it, it does not take place. For life or for death, the word has got to come out of the mouth of a mortal man.
05:28 -  And what does it say about Elijah in the book of James? He was a man of flesh and blood like as we. Don't get off the hook by saying this is some prophet, some romantic vision of the man of
05:42 -  faith and power who is made of different stuff than we are. He pees in his pants, he sweats, he's fearful, he's jerked and manipulated by the same kinds of forces and circumstances as we.
05:57 -  He's flesh and blood like as we and demonstrates it the very next day when the threat of Jezebel comes and he runs for his life. The prophet may be the wilderness prophet by virtue of his preparation and at point
06:11 -  of action, he's where the action is, where the authority is. He's not out in the boondocks, we've got his time for God to employ him, he's right smack dab at the vectors of power where they intersect, he's right at the heart of it.
06:28 -  So that's good. He's in his preparation but at the heart of the matter in his use. Now for example if the word is as radical as this, don't you think he should have said
06:39 -  thus saith the Lord, it shall not reign nor do? He doesn't even say that. He doesn't even say it's the Lord's word, he says it's his word.
06:47 -  So in other words even his statement as strange as it is would require yet a greater degree of authority because reference to God's authority is not even cited. In other words if he had said thus saith the Lord which was a convention or tradition
07:05 -  of prophetic use then he's resting on the authority of God but when he doesn't even invoke that familiar prophetic authorization then everything rests only on himself and his statement.
07:21 -  So what is authority and do you think that Ahab was impressed or he just yawned in his face and said, ah, can it? Who are you, you little punk?
07:31 -  Go back to your obscurity. Was Ahab threatened? Later on when he meets Ahab again he's going to say to him, are thou he who troubled Israel?
07:43 -  He recognizes that this prophet is a threat. Do you think that he recognized it in that first moment of speaking, that Ahab as opposed to God as he was and under the influence of Jezebel that unbelievable fearful anti-prophetic
08:01 -  spirit recognized an authority in Elijah, a quiet, would you think that he barked these words that it was his tone, was the volume of his voice increased, thus saith the Lord In Jesus name, if you add more decibels, will that give more authority to your statement?
08:26 -  Or could this have been spoken conversationally? What is authority and where is it obtained? What is the urschbung?
08:37 -  What is its origin that even not only an unbelieving but a hostile potent take will be recognized and will be required to recognize it? This is no small question.
08:51 -  It's something we must have or we might just as well swallow our words and imagine Elijah's voice cracking and breaking in that moment. Has the Lord my God lived his whole life?
09:05 -  He could hardly have the courage to bring it out of his own mouth. He would be astonished by his own audacity. So seeing that you all have a history in God and you're not novices in the faith and you
09:20 -  probably have considered, how would you answer the question, what is authority? All authority comes from God. God is the wellspring of authority.
09:35 -  How is it that some believers have it in greater measure than others? Seeing that we're all from God and related to God, you imagine God entrusting his authority to mere man, even the adversaries of Jesus recognize his authority, what bewildered them
09:54 -  was from where did he get it? From where do you get this authority? How dare you say this or how dare you turn over these money changers' tables?
10:04 -  By what authority that they would recognize an authority is clear, but the source of it mystified them, just helps you marvel all the more that God would entrust authority to men who one day will be faithful in its exercise and the very next day would be capable
10:21 -  of betrayal. No matter how suffused you are with the presence of God when it comes to the moment of confrontation and it's before the visible emblems of the world, its power, its authority, its prestige,
10:39 -  everything in you just drains. It's something like this that I'm sure you've experienced. It's one thing to pray for somebody with a sniffle or a cold, but pray for someone foaming
10:50 -  at the mouth. Pray for someone in a paralytic in a wheelchair and even as you pray you can feel the virtue going out of you and I'll just say this, our virtue or power or authority is proportionate
11:05 -  to our relationship. There are certain things that we have the faith to handle, but as your faith is so be it unto you and we are not all in the same place of faith or authority because we're
11:20 -  not all in the same place of relationship and because we've not all had comparable histories. Men who have flinched from the cross and from the issues of suffering, what did Paul say
11:35 -  that I might know him in the fellowship of his sufferings. This is where the relationship is. It's not to know him as buddy buddy, but in the fellowship of his sufferings that the
11:47 -  life of God is infused and the authority of God with it will be tested in the moment of crisis and we're not all capable of the same crises and the same confrontations, but Elijah has got to be a statement of ultimate faith, ultimate relationship, ultimate knowledge
12:06 -  because he's facing ultimate opposition and this is the picture of the thing to which we are heading. If we could feel depleted and robbed of our faith and authority at Bemidji State, what
12:19 -  is it going to be in New York City when we're confronted by a howling mob of orthodox Jews and we have to bring to them the message of the holocaust as being God's judgment and that another holocaust is coming unless you recognize the sins of your fathers as being
12:34 -  your own sins and repent before God, to a people who think themselves the epitome of Jewish virtue. This kind cometh not out, but by those who have come into a certain quality of relationship
12:48 -  with God which everything in hell and the flesh resists that it is obtained through prayer and fasting. Prayer and fasting, true prayer and fasting are ultimate acts of self-denial.
13:03 -  Isn't that right? How do we come into a relationship with God in which everything in the world and the flesh and the devil opposes, but by self-denial?
13:19 -  To seek the Lord. Is this my experience alone? No.
13:26 -  The Monday morning, you've had a great Sunday let's say, Monday morning the cold gray dawn, down on your knees, your place of prayer in calling the Lord and the heavens are as grass. Your voice doesn't even rise up to the ceiling.
13:44 -  There is no sense of communion or sense of God's presence. You want to quit after two minutes, you have nothing more to say. Your prayers even bore you.
13:53 -  There's no power. Have you ever experienced that? To break through that veil, to pierce that veil, to come into the presence of God.
14:04 -  What do I often say? That we do not persist long enough and intensely enough in prayer. We stop at the very point that we should have continued.
14:18 -  Very few of us know what it means to seek the Lord. And it's that kind of seeking that brings us into the intimacy and communion with God, breaks through the oppositions in the heavenlies, brings us into direct communion, releases
14:34 -  something that delivers that boy who's foaming at the mouth the next day. Jesus himself had to go aside and pray at the earliest part of the day. So that's how I would interpret it.
14:49 -  The Lord is not saying, look, here's the technique that you need to employ, but here's the relationship that you need to obtain. And you'll not obtain it without fasting and without prayer and how presumptuous we had
15:01 -  thought to be that we could boast that we had sought the Lord before we made a trip to East Germany or Iron Curtain countries where we prayed and fasted three days and thought we had the mind of the Lord.
15:12 -  What is that? That's nothing. We hadn't even begun to enter the secret place to be in communion with him and to have his
15:20 -  counsel. This is how God distinguishes the false prophets from the truth. Where did you get your word?
15:27 -  Did you hear it from another? Or did you get it from me in the place of my secret counsel? Men who are not willing for the sacrifice of finding him in that place will invariably
15:42 -  have to get their word elsewhere. And isn't that what we're hearing? Everybody's into the same thing at the same time.
15:49 -  I remember when the body of Christ was the rage, the phraseology, then it became power evangelism or the big church, the Korean church growth. And everybody at the same time saying the same thing.
16:04 -  I felt like a freak. I'm the only one in the neighborhood who's not talking about the body of Christ. How come I didn't talk about it because it had not been given to me?
16:15 -  There's a way in which you can learn to parrot and enter into the things that are in vogue. It's not to say that what they were saying about the body of Christ was not true. They were authentic biblical principles, and they were having a good time splashing
16:28 -  around in it. It was a frolic, but it had not been given. That whole season, I don't know if you guys were old enough to remember it, of submission
16:39 -  and authority, the shepherding system grew out of this preoccupation of the first year. Yeah, all those guys with the body of Christ principles and submission. The principles are true, but God never intends us to operate from principle.
16:55 -  It's a form of humanism, however correct the principle might be in itself. So, you see, I'm spent already just talking about this, and it's an exhaustion just to review it.
17:09 -  What will it take to obtain it? In a word, seeking the Lord of all of the things that are before us as believers, to seek the Lord and to come into the holy place, or the place of his secret counsel, the communion
17:25 -  with him in his presence, and to hear there the word of the Lord. Come up unto me, and I will give you the tablets of the Lord. Don't think that you can hack them out and inscribe them, but come up unto me and be
17:40 -  there, and I will give you. A lot of this presence is the only true place of the origin of anything that is authentically God, but that's the most painful to the flesh, the most sacrificial.
17:55 -  It's death. Six days in the cloud, and that's more than just the sugar candy. That cloud is terrifying of smoke.
18:06 -  Everything is taken from you in the disorientation of smoke to come up into his presence on the seventh day with no presumption, no religious qualification. You're nothing.
18:17 -  You're reduced to where I was on the floor at about that eighth day. You're nothing. Seeking the Lord is the most devastating attack against the flesh, and yet in Psalm 24 it
18:35 -  says, and who shall ascend unto the hill of the Lord? Who will have clean hands and a pure heart, and who have kept their souls from vanity and deceit that could enter into the hill of the Lord?
18:50 -  Then it says, this is the generation of them that seeked me. The seeking of God is painful. Maybe this helps to understand his indignation when he said, how long must I suffer you,
19:08 -  so to speak? How long have I been with you? Have you really availed yourself of the communion with me, which would have given you the recognition
19:17 -  of who I am and the Father, that you would not at all have been intimidated by this demonstration of demonic power? You had not the authority to meet it, and yet the source of your authority was your
19:34 -  relationship with me. How long must I be with you? How long must I suffer you?
19:40 -  What am I, a curiosity to you? Have you drawn in, have you recognized and been related and taken the depth of what was before you continually?
19:54 -  Maybe that step was, your failure to do that is reflected in this moment's failure to handle that demonic phenomenon. You have not the authority because you have not the relationship, and yet I've been with
20:05 -  you. For how long? How long must I suffer you?
20:11 -  Yeah, if I didn't mention it before, it's worth hearing again, Spurgeon in his talks to students, he had schools like this, the great English preacher, what do they call him?
20:24 -  The Prince of the Preachers, he says, a man's relationship with God is the statement of his public prayer. You might deceive yourself in your own prayer and think that it's impressive, but it's
20:42 -  what you're able to express publicly with others that is the real measure, he says, of your relationship with God. Some men, they can roll it out by the arts, and I'm not, I mean, there's such a volume
21:00 -  of things continually flowing in their spirits that they almost have to cut it off. For others, you know, they get out anything credible. Some will sit silently, they're just incapable.
21:14 -  So this is a remarkably uncharted area. We don't hear much about this, because from whom shall we hear it? The men who are in the pulpit, or even the most notable of charismatic speaking personalities,
21:29 -  are they necessarily the statement of the deepest communion with God? Not necessarily, and in fact rarely, and therefore, this can only be spoken out of the experience of one who has it, and there are not that many who are seekers after the Lord.
21:47 -  What does it say somewhere? David set himself to seek the Lord. I remember years ago, my own David was doing his homework, the radio was going, something
21:58 -  else was going, he had cleared out a little mess of his desk that he could put down a piece of paper, and he was beginning to scribble something in school, and I had just read that scripture, something about David set himself to seek the Lord, and I said, are you setting
22:13 -  yourself to do your homework? To turn in an assignment? How can you do with the radio on, and this clutter in front of you, you've got to set
22:24 -  yourself. What would it take to set yourself to seek the Lord, put away every distraction, and be willing for a measured time to give yourself?
22:37 -  We've not broken through the veil, how shall I put it? The Lord has broken through, the veil is rent from his side, but from our side, our veil has not been rent, and it's the veil of slough, of indifference, personal laziness, sluggishness,
22:55 -  distraction, the flesh, it would be appropriate even to begin without even opening our mouths, just to be quiet in his presence, let the Lord just take the obstructions, and the residue of things, and flotsam and jettison, and get the debris and clutter out of the way, just
23:19 -  by waiting, and then, communion, and then even after you have spoken, to wait on the Lord's reply, or just to remain in the place of silence before you get off, you know, up from your knees, and seeking is a voluntary, free activity, in fact we were talking about
23:39 -  freedom yesterday, you know, of God's determination and man's will, if we're free in anything, we are especially free in this, and if God waits to see if a man will turn aside to see before he calls to him out of the bush, and gives him his apostolic mandate, does God
24:00 -  wait to see those who will seek him? So to set yourself to seek the Lord, to make it your intent, and to be prepared and willing for the sacrifice of it, to know that at that moment the phone's going to ring, your wife's got a legitimate thing for your attention,
24:20 -  the kids are clutching to your legs, you've got this practical thing and that, it's just heroic. I appreciate men who rent a hotel room and throw the key away, or who announce I'm not coming out of this room until I have met with God, and invariably God meets them.
24:41 -  The kingdom of God suffered violence and the violent take it by force, but this is an easy generation, and we're not accustomed to something as strenuous as this, so it's usually crisis that compels us, but I'm implying and suggesting that undoubtedly Elijah had that kind of relationship,
25:07 -  and don't you think that even when he's ready to face Ahab and to say this, that there's not something nipping at him, right at his elbow, the accuser of the brethren is not saying, this is not God but you, this is your own flesh, you're wanting to be impressive,
25:27 -  God is not going to judge all Israel in that way and deny them the most elementary thing, he's the God of grace and mercy, and who are you to presume to think that out of your mouth, who are you to announce, you know, there's going to be that mind battle right till the
25:41 -  moment of the deliverance of that word, and in fact it's not even going to be the enemy speaking as the enemy, but the enemy speaking as God, you understand what I'm saying, even imitating the voice of the Lord and saying, I never sent you to say that, I'm the compassionate
26:01 -  God and the loving God and my way is not the way of judgment that where the innocent will suffer for the one to blame, this is your presumption, in other words, there's going to be a testing right till the moment of the obedient proclamation in the most subtle and
26:20 -  powerful ways that except a man is really trained up in the Lord to discern the voice of the Lord, he will even have that moment stolen from him in something that appears to be the Lord's voice and it's not. How do you come to a place of such acute discernment
26:42 -  as to recognize what is the Lord's voice and what is the voice of the distracted and the enemy? See, everything implies history. I've got my finger here, I had my finger up here, and John chapter 3, I've always loved these verses, the end of the chapter, for he whom
27:05 -  God hath sent speaks the words of God, for God gives not the Spirit by measure unto him. The Father loveth his Son and hath given all things unto his fans. That's John 34 and 55, chapter 3. God giveth not the Spirit by measure. And if it says the Spirit, then it means also
27:33 -  authority. He gives his own measure. The authority that can confront Ahab is the authority of God, given without measure to a man. Not only the word of God, but the authority of God given to a man. Little wonder that God had to give Paul a, whatchamacallit, a thorn in
27:54 -  his side, lest he be exalted beyond measure. What would keep a man from running away with this? Well, we can see it in men who don't even begin to approach this. They don't even approach this. Jimmy Nutbaker, the other one. Swaggered. If my ministry is shut down, millions
28:26 -  will perish. I am God's evangelistic voice to the nations, and if I don't go on, if you guys make me take a three-month, what do you call it, furlough, millions will perish. I am, what a presumptuous character. But actually believing that, because he had enjoyed the
28:55 -  rich anointing of God. He had seen great rallies in Africa and the United States. He had seen Latin America, tens upon tens of thousands of miracles and things like that. How can you see that out of your ministry and your speaking and be kept in a place where you
29:13 -  don't appropriate and usurp and think that it's yours to possess and that you're in so exalted a place that God even gives you special liberties because he knows you need a certain compensation for the enormous stress and strains to which you have been put. That he doesn't
29:32 -  look or scan at the light that comes to you from involvement with a prostitute. God knows you've got it coming. Look what you've done for him. You think I'm talking out of my hat? You think that I'm making this up, that men don't actually think those thoughts and justify
29:51 -  themselves in their very sin and do not see it as sin but see it as a special kind of privileged allowance given by God because they're doing so much for him. That God would entrust that authority on an issue that will affect an entire nation and not fear that
30:13 -  a man is going to run away with it and be exalted beyond measure is a remarkable thing. So, how does that tie in with what I've just read in John chapter 3? That he gives his spirit without measure. What do those verses tell us that would enable us to understand?
30:40 -  So, in other words, the man is not self-sent. He has not originated his own life. He has his own ministry. He's not going in his own, what's the word, autonomy, his own. In other words, Elijah did not choose that he would do this, that there's a moment of confrontation,
31:05 -  that after all something has got to be said to this Ahab Jezebel coalition that has reduced God's profits and I'm going to do it. There's a need here and I'm going to, nothing like that. There's a sounding and the man waits and waits and waits. When he says I alone
31:24 -  am left means that there were others who no longer are alive. Why? Because Jezebel has slain them or they have compromised and become her false prophets and eat at her table. Well, shouldn't he have said something long before? How dare he enjoy isolation while other prophets
31:48 -  are living in a cave or have been executed? Shouldn't he have done something being a prophet? Understand? If you guys don't get this, the greatest temptation in the last days is to act independent of God in doing something good for God that he did not originate
32:12 -  but you felt under obligation to perform especially because others also expected it from you and it has every seeming legitimacy that something ought to be done. But the prophet who can keep himself in the place of what? Silent availability is a man who is dead to these
32:38 -  kinds of pressures. What would be an example with Jesus where there was a certain human expectancy that on the basis of what he had done for others that he would now act and he flatly refuses to act. When Lazarus died. When Lazarus was sick. Whom you love, no matter
32:57 -  how his sisters bated him. Your friend whom you love is sick. Having heard that he waited two days longer. Sufficient for his friend to die. This was a moment of prophetic response to the father and had he acted out of a humanistic desire to alleviate ill would have blown the
33:24 -  whole thing. So also Elijah. The authority of Jesus to bring Lazarus out of the tomb with one word come forth was proportionate to his ability to wait and to ignore every impulse to act prematurely. As if the power of the spirit is compounded and the authority
33:49 -  deepened in the very process of waiting. But all the more as the temptation to act is so powerful at that time. So many legitimate needs. So many right responses that could be made. And that others think that you should make being the prophet. And the ability to
34:11 -  stand against that and to be inactive and to wait. And under those very pressures deepens and compounds the presence and the authority of God in the waiting man. That when the moment of release comes his word is dynamite. I'm probably speaking well over your heads. You're
34:35 -  too young or you've never been in situations where that kind of waiting has been required of you. But it will be. You cannot understand an Elijah nor his authority in the critical confrontation that they have in Jezebel except out of the authority that rests on waiting.
34:54 -  When lots of voices are speaking shouldn't you be doing something? And this itch to do and the need to prove ourselves and to demonstrate ourselves is so powerful especially in the young. Let's look further in that remarkable statement in John. For he whom God hath sent.
35:15 -  Okay so there's a critical issue of sending. Speaks the words of God. They are not his own. For God giveth not the spirit by measure unto him. He'll give the measure appropriate to the word and to the sending. And what do you think of verse 35? What does that got
35:36 -  to do with anything? Why would the spirit of God inspire John to write the father loveth the son and hath given all things into his hand. The all things includes his authority. What does that got to do with verse 34? The father loveth his son. Of course verse 34
35:56 -  describes Jesus. But is he the only son who's described? What other son has been described? Any son who's a son. The children who have become sons. To a son God will entrust the spirit without measure and the authority of God that is inherent in that spirit. But only
36:23 -  to a son. What's the difference between a child and a son? We're all the children of God by being born again. But are we all the sons of God? He's bringing many sons to glory. That's the ultimate end of being the first fruit son and the patterned son. But is it
36:42 -  all instant? And is it total by virtue of new birth? You know there's a whole movement of son, manifest sons movement it's called. And it's a little bit off the deep end in most cases. And so the rest of the body of Christ seeing the extremists who have taken
37:03 -  hold of this and run with it shy away. But I just want to make a statement and say that if you have not given sufficient consideration to the genius of what it means to be a son of God and why it is that creation itself is waiting and groaning for the coming forth
37:24 -  of the manifestation of the sons of God you're missing the heart of everything. To a son God will give his spirit without measure. Because what's the difference between a child, a male child and a son? Maturity is the key word. Sonship. A son who has come of age.
37:51 -  What's the difference between his relationship with the father as a son as against his relationship with the father as a child? When you're a child you're goo goo gad gad. You want something stuck in your mouth or be picked up or cuddled or your diaper changed. Who's the center of
38:07 -  your universe? You. You're an organism that needs to be fed, pampered or tended. But when you become a son who's the center of your universe? The father. Discipline. Severe dealing by the father. The shaping of character. School of obedience. Testing. Trial. Leading
38:33 -  by the spirit. What, in patsy situations? No. In situations where you'll spit your guts out and if you're not led of the spirit the consequences are fearful. It would not be an exaggeration to say that the whole of our Christian life is for the purpose of being
38:50 -  brought forth as sons. And to sons who have obtained this relationship through such an awareness to them is given the spirit without measure, which is to say the authority without measure. Elijah may not have been anything impressive in the sight of Ahab or even of
39:11 -  Israel, but in God's sight he was a son. How do we go from the capitalized word son referring to Jesus to sons with a lowercase s referring to us? Are we taking liberties with the scripture? What's our relationship as sons with a small s to Jesus who is the son of the big S? He's
39:38 -  bringing our many sons to glory like himself until we come unto the fullness and the stature of a perfect man that is Jesus Christ in Ephesians chapter 4. He is the patterned son and his work is to produce others like himself. We are subsumed in him. We are in the son. What
40:01 -  it says of that son would be appropriate also to the sons that we are who are removed from self-interest, who can give unqualified obedience to God the Father, who can suffer for the Father's sake, who are jealous for his glory and for his honor. All that Paul was saying
40:20 -  to us about the whole issue of Israel is revelation of the glory of the Father. Sons have no life for themselves. Their interest is not in themselves, nor for themselves, but for the Father, which is why Jesus said, the words that I speak are not my words, but the words that my Father
40:38 -  has given me. Paul quoted that, or the works that I do I've seen of my Father. Everything was for the Father. This is the model and the thing to which we ourselves are called. So the day will come that what was given to that son with the capital S is appropriate
40:57 -  also to us who are in him as sons. Creation waits for this. This is the end of the mystery. Bringing many sons to glory and that dumb, inarticulate nature groans and travails until now. There's something instinctive, even an insensate nature, recognizing the ravages
41:19 -  of the fall and knowing that there's a greater and a more glorious demonstration even in creation that waits for the coming forth of this one phenomenon, the sons of God, their actual manifestation. Elijah was such a son. Jesus was such a son. Paul was such a son.
41:41 -  Stephen was such a son. We are called to be such sons, but as our brother reminded us through that text, sons are made through discipline and through, what's the word that text uses? Chastising. He chastises sons. It's interesting that in the beginning of our conversation
42:08 -  talking about my own son, Ariel, someone said, how old is he? I said chronologically he's 26, but in terms of maturity maybe more like 16. That might not just be a description of him, but maybe many in the body of Christ. I would just raise this question. Do you think
42:27 -  that it's automatic, that inevitably just by process of things one becomes a son? I don't think so. I think it needs to be a conscious desire and willing for the chastisement and the dealings of God to become it. If it's not something that we choose and see as ultimate
42:50 -  and our desire to be a son that we might be co-heirs and through rule and reign with him, it will not come of itself. I think most Christians will condemn themselves to a perpetual childhood. They never come of age. God is not going to entrust his spirit to those who are going
43:10 -  to misuse it or be exalted out of measure by it, but sons, the formation of the character of Jesus in the believer, that implies daughters. Everything we've said about sons is equally true for the daughters of the most high. But do you drool a little bit? Are the juices
43:30 -  running in your mouth? Sonship is a discipline from heaven. It's a chastisement to break the power of all of this infantile stuff that wants to keep us down, to indulge, to masturbate, to enjoy our things when we will, at our will. The whole temper of our civilization is like
43:54 -  that and God is other. It's painful denial not to give into that kind of indulgence and to become a son. The son is the supreme achievement of God. It is his masterpiece. Listen to the way the book of Hebrews begins. God, who at sundry times and in diverse manners
44:14 -  spoken times past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in half in these last days spoken unto us by his son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things. The son is the supreme masterpiece of God, as it was expressed in Jesus, and now God is going for broke. That
44:37 -  that pattern is now the prototype for all sons, that to the same fullness and style of life, to the same stature and obedience unto death, and then when it is obtained, the whole drama of the redemption history is over, and even creation itself is released
44:57 -  from its bondage and Israel from its apostasy, because God has now sons in the earth who can rule and reign with him. The whole purpose for the creation of the church in the setting aside of Israel has been fulfilled, and now order can be restored to the heavenly places
45:17 -  where the Gods of authority had been usurped by fallen angels, by sons who can be trusted to occupy those places and to rule and reign with authority and not be misused. They come into that place by virtue of their sonship, and I think that that mystery is hinted at
45:36 -  in the phrase, when the fullness of the Gentiles be come in, and that there's an elect number that must be taken from all the nations that will replace the heavenly hosts cast out, who were in governmental places of responsibility in the heavenlies, but misused it and became
45:57 -  the Gods of this world. Now God has a replacement of sons to whom that authority can be trusted. But where did they become sons? In the earth, in the struggles, in the grid of the everyday. Maybe psych-religious to be reminded of a song and a poem about a tree. I forgot the
46:20 -  author's name, a werewolf, one hero. We had this little square in Brooklyn on Kings Highway dedicated to Sargent. So-and-so had written a poem about a tree. How does it go? Poems are written by fools like me, but only God can make a tree. A tree whose hungry mouth
46:42 -  is pressed against the earth's sweet flowing breast. Oh, poems are written by fools like me, but only God can make a tree. I think that I shall never see a poem as lovely as a tree. A tree whose hungry mouth is pressed against the earth's sweet flowing breast.
47:01 -  Oh, poems are written by fools like me, but only God can make a tree. A tree is a majestic thing. My heart broke when we had to cut down one to get Pete's trailer. It's a majestic thing. It's a whole generation after generation of the investment of God through virtue to
47:17 -  bring that little satling up to that majestic height. But here's a man celebrating a tree. I'm waiting for someone to write a poem about a son. I think that I shall never see a thing so lovely as a son. The thing brought to maturity. Every infantile dependency and powering and
47:36 -  sensuality and indulgence and me, me, me is off. And everything for the father and his glory and total surrender. It's a masterpiece. So that vision of what adheres in that word, that three-letter word needs to be revived for the church. And if it comes, who do you
47:57 -  think will bring it? The vision of sonship, namely a son, selfless, obedient, knows how to wait, will not prematurely be provoked out from that place only by the voice of God. And he knows the voice when it comes. And when he comes out, he's sent with the spirit
48:17 -  given without measure to be God's historic actor in a final conflict of powers against darkness and light, where the whole of the nation in apostasy waits for the demonstration. Remember, we go on to the text of what we will, where Elijah calls his people, come
48:34 -  unto me. How long do you hold between two opinions? If God be God, follow him. And you go, that's it. And you know what they did? They came. He said they have, now you go and gather your false prophets and let them take a bullock and make of him a sacrifice. And
48:50 -  I'll do the same. And let that God be God who answers by fire. What do you think Abraham does? He doesn't. He gathers up all Israel, all the false prophets and the sacrifice because the prophet, this little puny nothing from Gilead said, you go and do. How do you feel
49:06 -  when you walk through Bemidji State University or Harvard or Yale or a Hollywood studio or Rockefeller Center in New York? Do you feel intimidated and crowd down? Who am I? What is my little foolish faith? And the gospel is so ridiculous, you know, and the wisdom
49:24 -  of the world? It depends on your stature as a son and the knowledge of the invisible God when he seems to be crowded out with the visible symbols of worldly, earthly authority and magnificence. To stand there in the assurance of God and even to be able to confront the
49:48 -  spirit of those things is the final picture. And I think that this bringing to sonship is to a great extent for the use of fathers who are in the church. Remember Paul said you have many teachers but not many fathers. So even the grooming of sons is through the
50:07 -  employment of spiritual fathers who will be the voice of chastisement and correction for sons. I think of a little episode that I had with Randy where he acknowledged that he had boo-booed upon something and there's about $150 lost. I said, well, you should
50:25 -  make that up. He said, I blew it, you know, I missed it. I said, well, yeah, but still there's something that should be remedied, some acknowledgement of that that would be costly. It wasn't that I was thinking of the economy, I was thinking of the responsibility
50:48 -  because it's easy to say something like, well, I blew it and just let the thing fade away with time. But to blow it and to make amends for blowing it is a step toward the maturity of becoming a son. And who will say that to a brother? Who will love a brother enough
51:05 -  to take the risk of offending him by bringing him to that kind of recognition and accountability? It's going to take that kind of relationship to produce things. One willing to hear such a word and one willing to speak it. And it's worth every risk of misunderstanding and offense
51:26 -  which did come because the end is so great.