The Church and the Synagogue 2 of 4

00:00 -  Because we have been victim of that law of grace antipathy as if there's something in the naked law that's hostile to grace. No orthodox Jew would ever acknowledge that for him law is grace and the ability and the
00:15 -  enablement to keep it is grace. But we have used grace as a means of dispelling law rather than seeing it as a means by which it can be fulfilled.
00:25 -  So the whole mentality, our mentality needs to be altered if we are to relate with them in a respectful way. For the Jew believing in Christ Jesus would continue to be a Jew and thus obey the law
00:40 -  and the Gentile believers in Jesus Christ would continue to be a Gentile thus not under the law. However, the Gentile would now through Jesus Christ have a new relationship with Israel
00:49 -  that made it necessary to respect the rules of behavior that had been developed in Judaism to define the minimal requirements of law and custom for the God-fearing Gentile wishing to associate with God and his people.
01:02 -  Can you understand that? There's the Noahite laws that God gave for Gentiles after the flood, I think seven principle things, not to eat strangled meat, eat meat with its blood, to abstain from fornication
01:17 -  and to live under an order by rule. And that this was the minimum requirement of Gentiles. So the Gentiles who observed that were looked upon by law and Torah relating Jews as acceptable
01:34 -  into the synagogue. They were God-fearing in that they obeyed the Noahite laws. And now they wanted to go further and to learn from the Jewish community, the guardians of
01:46 -  Torah, those things that would bring even greater faith and understanding in the one God who is God alone of both you and Gentile. Can you get the format?
01:56 -  Because that format does not exist today. That mentality is not in existence today either by Jews or by Christians. The synagogue has become an establishment, an entity under its own or the Jewish community
02:09 -  center and the church itself something under its own. And that's why the kids from this Hasidic family have to say, you mean, Aaron, that there are Gentiles who read the Old Testament?
02:22 -  They're astonished. Don't they have their book? What are they doing with our book?
02:26 -  So separate have the two religious realities become that they themselves are baffled. Not only the children, but their parents. The children are speaking for their parents.
02:37 -  So we've come a long way from the kind of thing that Paul was commending that served the purpose of moving the Jews to jealousy by the presence in their midst of Gentiles who display a remarkable sensitivity and respect for Jewish custom and law and practice and
02:57 -  will not violate it by boasting and exulting that they have a freedom in Jesus to eat pork. If you eat it, eat it privately, but let not your meat be a cause for a brother's falling. That only makes sense in the context of Jews admitted within the synagogue and Paul giving
03:20 -  them a basis for understanding of what should be required of them in submitting to the authority of the rulers of the synagogue, as he himself did. Paul came to Jerusalem for that Nazirite vow and he had Timothy circumcised and in every way,
03:40 -  he never gave any instance by which he could be accused of having faulted the law or denied it or rejected it. He continued as a law abiding Jew until his death.
03:51 -  The thing that made Paul suspect is the great jealousy that he had from Judaizers who were trying to bring Gentile converts or righteous Gentiles to become Jews in order to become saved.
04:06 -  That required circumcision. That for him was a no-no of an ultimate kind and so what has happened is that his critics have confused Paul's statements to Gentiles not to be Judaized and to be
04:23 -  circumcised who have already been brought into a circumcision made without hands and that they don't need to go through that because they have come into the faith of Abraham through Jesus.
04:36 -  They don't require the process of Judaizing that formally was necessary for Gentile proselytes into Judaism. Paul was very concerned over that because that would be a notification of Jesus himself,
04:50 -  a notification of the blood, a notification of the circumcision made without hands, that you have to now receive the physical and the bodily circumcision as a Gentile. So people in their era have taken Paul as saying,
05:05 -  oh look at this man now, he's preaching against circumcision, he's preaching against this and he's rejecting the law. You have to separate the context of Paul speaking to Gentiles who are being tempted to be Judaized
05:19 -  as against Paul speaking to Gentiles who come into a relationship with the synagogue and Judaism in Rome in a respectful way. Two different contexts, two different responses from his great apostolic heart that should not
05:33 -  be confused or mixed. So in the one sense he's saying to the Gentile believer you're not under obligation of that law to be circumcised and then he's saying to the Gentile believer in Rome you're under obligation
05:47 -  to be law abiding, law respecting, law acknowledging while you're in that community with this Jewish people. It's not incumbent upon you for salvation but having a pain salvation
06:01 -  show yourself respectful to your fathers. Thus the phrase law respectful gospel is offered here in contrast with law free gospel. So Paul is not advocating you're free from the implications of law but you're called because
06:14 -  of your faith in Christ to a new respect for the law and for those who are yet keeping it as the basis for their relationship with God still short of the salvation that has come to you. They are to commit themselves humbly serving those whom they had formerly regarded as enemies.
06:34 -  Enemies of the gospel and thus are being being addressed as the very beloved of God for the sake of the fathers. You see what Paul is saying? They're going to be adversarial.
06:45 -  You're going to chafe. They're going to put the press on you as I'm experiencing it with this rabbi but remember instead of being irritated and reacting in kind that they are yet beloved of the fathers and when you remember that you'll be able more readily to receive the chafing
07:03 -  irritation that might come by the way in which they would raise some questions for you or react to you. You've never been this way here before. You've never been so challenged and so demanding a relationship as is yours in the synagogue with the Jews in Rome and I'm saying that this is more
07:21 -  than a historical expediency. I'm saying that it's a pattern. It's a what's the word somebody with the word a paradigm that though it has faded in time historically there's no longer the preeminence of the synagogue and diaspora as it existed in Rome. Still if that relationship was
07:45 -  God intended by means by which a testimony would go to the non-believing Jew but that something would also be down to the Gentile believer that would take the rough edges off of him and temper him and bring a dimension into his life through his submission to the unbelieving Jew that cannot
08:06 -  be obtained anywhere else where then do we have that advantage today for surely we're showing ourselves arrogant brittle metallic clanging all the kinds of things about which Paul warned because we have not the benefit that was available to the Roman believer because of their relationship
08:28 -  with the Jew in the synagogue. So one of the questions I'm going to ask for you to consider in committee how then can we find it in the context of our present contemporary life. Where can we seek out and find a relationship with Jews that would do for us what it did for them
08:46 -  not only because it's we receive a benefit but at the same time it constitutes a witness and it's becoming in God's sight that we should be so related to our brethren who will soon enough become the least of these his brethren and our brethren. We need now to begin to have a brotherly relationship
09:06 -  with these Jews whether they're religious or secular and it is for us to find the ingenuity of in establishing the relationship if we will seek it by the spirit and in prayer and desire to be available to them. So I described going to the Jewish Community Center to the fitness room.
09:26 -  God knows I need it and they have the most resplendent facility in the whole of New York City. It's a gorgeous whole building. I think it's six seven stories with their own swimming pool, an Olympic pool and the story below or above is their last word in gym equipment and then
09:45 -  they have their classes and the Jewish Community Center New York City. Very expensive. By the way there are barriers. You know those things that divide the road on the major highways are outside the building on the sidewalk. I said what are they doing with this? It's such an eyesore. That keeps
10:02 -  their truck from coming and crashing right into the building with its explosives. That's how they have to live to save themselves. So I'm in the Jewish Community Center fitness room. I had a guest pass because a membership is over $1,200 a year for a senior citizen
10:25 -  which some brother has already subscribed for me because I described what happened in that day. I'm taking off my clothing in the dressing room there and a man next to me engages me in conversation. He's a lawyer because Jews of a prestigious kind
10:41 -  come to this community center. I had already gone to the one in Brighton Beach Brooklyn but it's totally Russian. It's much cheaper. For 250 bucks I could have had the same thing for years. I have in the center in Manhattan but I would not have the same clientele
10:57 -  and I went to the Russian thing and I don't speak their language and it's another thing more elderly and but the New York Center there you dare even touch Jewish intelligentsia. There you're going to encounter men who are in places of influence and significance and there
11:14 -  was this man engaging me in conversation. I don't know how it came up. He watches the 700 club and enjoys it and he thinks that it's wonderful that evangelical Christians take such an interest in Israel and another man alongside him said they're only doing that because they want to
11:31 -  bring their messiah. They're not really interested in our welfare and these two guys begin to argue. So I left them and went up. I did my exercise and came down to the to the steam room for good shifts and who's there but the guy who had been arguing. Oh and he begins to talk to me. Are
11:46 -  you a believer then? Yeah we went on. I'm giving a complete testimony and there are three other men in that steam fog listening to the entire thing who cannot bolt out in their nakedness and are held to hear the witness. When I realized that I'm in a position to hold Jewish lawyers and
12:09 -  the men in places of significance into a place of hearing in the steam room that would not be afforded any other place it's worth twelve hundred dollars a year and the Lord thought so sufficiently as to provide it. So I'm just giving one illustration of the kinds of places of access
12:27 -  to Jews that by which we can be a statement for the Lord and find ourselves in conversation that would never be given anywhere else if we make ourselves available at the expense of what it would require whether it's financial or our time or our leisure but if Jewish life is at stake and
12:44 -  the witness of the Lord to this people or even to sound the prospect of an imminent and coming fearful day of the Lord and days of judgment and the time of Jacob's trouble isn't it worth it? So I'm commending that to you for your consideration. I asked about Messianic Jews
13:03 -  who have a who keep some parts of the Jewish Torah and other things and but yet they're in a community to themselves in a way. Does that attract Jews? No, that repels Jews but in my knowledge and experience putting on a yarmulke and a prayer shawl or a star of David
13:28 -  and all of a sudden looking Jewishly turns off the orthodox they see right through it. It's a superficial, it's a cosmetic external thing. Better if you would make no such attempt at looking or behaving Jewishly and what is expressed to them is not some external reality but that which
13:48 -  is internal and spiritual. That which is Davidic, that which is Hebraic, not cultural, not put that you can easily wear and demonstrate but what you acquire through suffering and through the cross and through patient attention to the word and coming into the intrinsic reality of that Shem life
14:09 -  to be found in the Psalms, to be found in obedience, to be found in obediences that come through suffering and through the bearing of reproach of those who will not understand it. That aura that that Rabbi talked about is the compendium, the sum of all of the sufferings
14:26 -  minor that they are that have borne in obedience to the Lord through a lifetime of faith. You can't identify it, you can't put a label on it but I'll tell you it goes far more than my putting on a yarmulke, looking cute, looking Jewish. In fact I say, shall I wear a yarmulke?
14:44 -  No, don't bother but there's a depth of something that lies too deep for words and here's the kick, you don't have to be Jewish to obtain it. There's the famous advertisement in the old days, you don't have to be Jewish to like
14:58 -  Levi's rye bread. You don't have to be Jewish to exude the quintessence of what Jewishness is in its best sense, not as being cultural but as being spiritual. That is to say that thing that is best described as nearly as we can approach it by the word Hebraic or the word Davidic,
15:18 -  my two favorite words that make me drool when I speak them, Davidic. What is Davidic? Davidic is what we read in the Psalms. Davidic is the psalmist who cries out, how long would? Not because he's waiting to be relieved of the oppression that he faces because
15:36 -  he identifies with Hashem but because he's concerned for the name and the honor of Hashem because the enemies mock him and say, where is your God? Why doesn't he come quickly to your relief? And so the psalmist is crying out, not for my personal relief but for your name and honor
15:55 -  that you would vindicate yourself before those who mock and say, where are you? That's Davidic. Can you understand that? Where will you learn that? You learn that in the Psalms. But that's just, I've read my psalm for the day. Good for you. Is that like taking a vitamin?
16:12 -  Did you steep yourself in the psalm? Did you hold it on your lips? Did you put it on your tongue like a real wine? Did you go back again? Did you read it in different translations? Did you dwell upon it? Did you see the frequency of certain words that are employed or the rhythm?
16:27 -  Did you recognize the psalm as poetry? The Psalms are a remarkable entree into the Davidic life mentality, mind and spirit. So what is Hebraic? Something of the same by the reading of the giants of the Hebrew faith, Moses and the prophets especially. So this is, and then
16:53 -  the walking God and the living God. So that's the ultimate witness. You shall be witnesses unto me. Every time I say that I remember this guy who was with us on a tour to Israel. He had a little book called Scripture Verses and when the waiter bent over to ladle out the soup, he would rip off a
17:10 -  verse and put it in the guy's shirt pocket and lean back with such satisfaction that he came to Israel all the way to witness to the Jew. It's like leaving behind a scripture in a phone booth. No, to witness is to give the expression of that intrinsic life of God which is so indescribable and
17:36 -  so definitive, so distinctive of the God of the Jews that however oppositional they are in their prejudice that history has wrought and they are almost justified in having something is expressed that they cannot gainsay. And when a Gentile will come to a place like that, he is transformed
17:59 -  and it's that fullness for which God waits that he might be the deliverer that comes out of Zion. So this dynamic provides a glimpse of the early Christian movement as it was developing within a Jewish environment. Would to God that our Christian
18:17 -  movement was developing within a Jewish environment. I think we'd have a far different movement. It would be far less flaky, far less hyper, far less religious, far less commercial. There would be some toning of our life, I don't have a word for it, that mediating,
18:38 -  tempering that comes from what they are themselves in themselves as Jews. So you have to recognize what Carl brought. The existence of the church and the synagogue as independent entities is altogether unnatural and it's an ache in God's heart to observe it. Somehow the bridge must be
18:57 -  closed and I keep saying to my dear Rabbi I'm so frustrated. I don't know what to say. I don't know how to answer. You've got me pinned to the wall but somehow somewhere there's got to be a bridge between where you are, what you believe, and who I am and what I believe. We've got to
19:13 -  find it. So I thank you for your continuance with me that I've not turned you off sufficiently and your wife and others have not discouraged you from continuing with me. By this process of exchange and as angry and pointed, as heated as it gets, somehow we'll find a bridge of connection
19:31 -  there's got to be because what you are and what you believe in what I am about issues out of the same God. There's only one. It seems at the moment that they are diametrically opposed but in the end the glory of the the union of what we are about will be revealed. But even before that
19:51 -  revelation comes you're still my brother. I still love you to pieces. You can insult me all over the place. You can walk over me like a mat. I can come away battered and bruised. I'll come back next week. Okay. So the dynamic provides a glimpse of the early Christian movement as it was developing
20:11 -  within the Jewish environment as a viable expression of formative Judaism. By the way, Christianity was unknown as a name or as a word. What we call the faith of Christianity today was only another Jewish sect. You must remember that but it was Jewish and therefore because it
20:31 -  was a Jewish sect it was welcomed and tolerated and respected within the confines of Judaism itself. It had not yet become so distinctive and so antithetical a thing to Judaism as requiring to be repelled. That came with the advent of Constantine and the advent of the Roman Catholic
20:52 -  Church and a certain of its theologians that actually called for a separation from the Hebraic roots of their Christian faith. So that Passover became Easter and because this Roman church spread throughout their empire and had to give place to the pagan traditions out of
21:12 -  which their subjects came they accommodated them and their Goddesses and so even their calendar Sunday and various names of things and Easter from Ishtar, the Goddess of fertility, were brought into this new Christianity which turned the Jewish believers completely off.
21:37 -  How could they continue in a faith that was losing its Jewish character and opening itself to embrace uh heathen uh Gods and Goddesses and so they were by that means forced out from the church and their influence with it while at the same time they were being repelled by the synagogue
21:57 -  who was who were consistently heartening against the faith because of the gentilic form which had taken since the death of Paul and the end of the apostolic era and the commencement of the universal catholic church. That's a great tragedy that Jews were forced out of their own
22:22 -  faith and that they were equally as unwelcome in their own synagogues at about that same time. They were in a no man's land and maybe not the least that we can do is to remember them in the unhappy role and to which they were forced historically and bore that
22:43 -  and that we now they may be part of the invisible card of witnesses above us today waiting for us to pick up where they left off and what opportunity now is before us to find again that connection with the Jewish people from which they themselves were expelled either by the
23:02 -  gentile church or by the synagogue itself. Were they not free to eat all things in Christ? This would have led the Jewish community to reject the claims of the Christian gentiles as equal co-participants in the promised salvation. You're another Jewish sect but the
23:21 -  way you're deporting yourself in reacting to our Jewish customs based on law indicates to us that that cannot be God. Though you're free but how do you exercise that freedom? Are you exercising that freedom with regard to those who will be offended by the way in which you employ it?
23:43 -  That's what Paul is saying. Don't so flaunt your freedom and exhibit your freedom in such a way to turn off your brother because you can boast that you're now free to eat all things that are made clean through prayer. Don't do it in front of them, let alone flaunt yourself
24:00 -  in front of them in such a way as to turn them off. You have misused and abused your freedom and led the Jews to reject your claims as it pertains to their salvation. What you have done constitutes for them a blasphemy rather than an approval that would have been the
24:18 -  unmistakable result and this would have caused the further stumbling of the Jewish community over the gospel, tearing down the work of God and destroying with your food him for whom Christ died. Where does Paul tell us that? In Romans chapter 14 verse 13. Remember that this Christ,
24:37 -  this Jew whom you have offended and turned away from the gospel is the one for whom Christ died and you're going now to flaunt your freedom and food before him. See, that's a discipline, you dear saints. That's an imposition on the freedom of the
24:53 -  Gentile believer and he's voluntarily allowing that restriction upon himself for the cause of the gospel and because of the sensitivity to the to the yet unbelieving Jewish brother. And I'll tell you that when he'll do that, something happens to him.
25:11 -  Something is brought in him by that very act of a willingness to impose upon himself an unnecessary restriction that he's setting aside a freedom that he could enjoy but is disavowing it for the sake of the yet unbelieving Jew for whom Christ has died. And when he will do that, it's not just a
25:34 -  technical thing he's performing, it's a spiritual thing. God honors that sacrifice and something redounds to the Gentile believer who makes it and receiving something indefinable from the God of Shem that makes him less the Gentile. And we have not had that advantage, we've not had that ability
25:56 -  so we retain yet our Gentilic character because it can only be affected by what comes to us in our sacrificial behavior before Jews. Oh I hope you're following me. So therefore the question for us in our generation is how can we find again that relationship that the Roman church
26:20 -  had with the Jew by which they received the benefit when they would they made a sacrifice of their freedom so as not to offend them or flunk their freedom in the face of the yet not believing Jew in the synagogue. If something redounded to them that mediated the grace of God
26:38 -  and took the edge off their Gentile life and began to dissipate its Gentilic character and make them increasingly Hebraic and bring them to an increasing fullness, where today can we find that value? If it's only to be had in submission to the Jew, where can we find an
26:55 -  occasion today where that submission can be given? How do we approach the Jewish community and say we desire such a relationship with you, we recognize you as the fathers of our faith, we want to give you due reverence and respect and not just on a casual once an occasion we will
27:16 -  visit you for the high holidays but on a sustained and regular and continued relationship. We want to be in that relationship with you and we know you have every reason to resist it, we know that you have a right to be suspicious, we know that you suspect it's a new stratagem of Christianity
27:33 -  to convert you and it's diabolical and that you honor God your Jewish identity and that this is the newest threat. What will you believe us when we say that we have no such intent while at the same time we desire of course your conversion, this is not a device to obtain it. This is
27:53 -  authentic desire to be in relationship with you for your own sake as our brothers. Will you receive us? I recognize that I'm incomplete without you and I need to have this relationship. Will you be willing to tentatively walk something out together that
28:13 -  neither one of us have known historically? And will you make allowances for me? I know I'll put my foot in my mouth, I know there are occasions I'll say the wrong thing, I know I'll be crude, I'm a dumb dumb, I don't understand your practices and I'll do something and say something that will
28:29 -  be offensive. Will you bear that? We've not been this way here too far. You have no obligation to come into this relationship but I'm asking it of you. I'm almost pleading with you for it. If God is with you, something will happen to their hearts. They've never been so approached
28:46 -  by Gentiles in their lives. All they have seen is an arrogant church and the church historically has been known by such Jews as the arrogant kingdom. They've never seen a Jew who has come and supplicated and bowed so to speak to enter their tent. You're wanting to come into the tent
29:04 -  of Shem and I believe God will open it for you and grant you a new experimental relationship as experimental and new as the very thing that we're speaking from this table at this time. No one needs to come with this book and the Bible and have a sense of direction only
29:25 -  and trust that the Lord will unfold it though it's laden with mind traps and that the insensitive believer who hears of it or will even hear the tape or not even be here will say, this is Judaizing the church. This is bringing the church into the bondage of Judaism
29:40 -  and legalism even though it's fraught with threat because is there anything good that is not fraught with threat? With risk is faith not the only thing that is fraught with threat. With risk is faith not the and it's essential meaning the willingness to take such risks
30:03 -  because you trust in the God who is so encouraging you to do. Are you willing to take the risk of faith? Not that your faith will suffer loss but that it will gain and I have to say in testimony my relationship for the six to nine months Heather reminded me it's not six months it's
30:22 -  really become nine it has not occasioned a loss of faith but a deepening. I've never loved the Lord more. I've never had deeper times of personal communion. I've never enjoyed the Lord all the more made rich by the very questions that my rabbi raises that brings me to seek in scripture
30:44 -  an answer for him and to see things that I've never before considered except that he brought it up as my adversary. He's the enemy for my sake but he's also my brother so I'm receiving benefit and I encourage you to find that benefit also. Luther is a textbook case who was disappointed
31:04 -  and disillusioned that Jews did not automatically recognize in the Reformation the faith of their fathers. He could understand they could be turned off by Catholicism but why didn't they see in the Reformation their own messianic faith and so when he engaged rabbis in debate because he was an
31:21 -  Old Testament scholar and a teacher of Psalms they answered in such a way to avoid the Christological implications that it bordered upon blasphemy which he thought to be a threat to the Reformation faith itself and was so disappointed at their failure to recognize the Reformation as their being their
31:42 -  faith that he turned against them. I'm saying we'll have to say this they disappointed him in his own romantic or idealistic notion of what he thought Jews are or ought to be and so his anger was at a disappointment because he did not realistically apprehend them and be
32:02 -  patient with them in the reality of what they were historically and desired for them a certain image which was his own. We talked about that and that there was a disillusionment that he should have been able to bear and then then in out of that disillusionment and brokenness
32:22 -  he might more ably been able to communicate the Hebraic elements of the faith in the Reformation church and the Reformation faith. Instead he moved indignant and angry and wrote a polemical book The Lies of the Jews which Hitler seized upon forced increase later
32:39 -  as justification to in fact do what Luther enjoined them to do, burn the synagogues, burn the Talmuds, tear them down, remove this, destroy their life so to speak and it was done. That's the historic tragedy in the failure of a man so spiritual as to be the father of the
32:57 -  Reformation and yet so dense as to miss the significance of what was before the Reformation church by the presence of Jews throughout the whole of the whole of the Roman Empire and especially in Germany which Jews later became Karl Marx and Sigmund Freud and gave rise to the
33:14 -  Antichrist movements who more likely would have been brought into the faith of their fathers in the light of the gospel conveyed by Gentiles with sensitivity that would have changed the whole subsequent history. So the question is if Luther failed are you saying that we're to succeed?
33:36 -  Are you saying the father of the Reformation failed and you're calling us to succeed? Yes. It's where principles have become more dear than the subject of which the principles exist. You love your principles more than the Christ that they celebrate and you're so defensive
33:54 -  of your principles that you end up by offending him. One of the respects of the early church was heresy at every hand that denied either the divinity of Jesus or celebrated his humanity at the expense of his divinity. The church fathers recognized that there needed to be some articulation
34:13 -  of the truths of the faith that are not explicitly set forth in Scripture and so there were a series of church councils in which these definitions had to come, not the least of which was defining the Godhead in three persons. What do you do with a son who speaks of the father and who gives his life
34:33 -  by the everlasting spirit? And so the language current in the Greek speaking world and the mentality of Greeks which is intellectual and theoretical rather than the Hebraic mentality which does not require a definition but appropriation. You see, what was happening
34:55 -  in church history, they came to Father, Son, Holy Spirit as the three persons of the Godhead and of course what did that do to the Jew who hears it? There's only one God. What are you talking about, three Gods? And that this controversy exists to this day and is a source of painful
35:16 -  collision between my Rabbi and myself. He said, ipso facto, if you believe in this Jesus you are worshiping a man for God is not a man. God cannot be a man. God is not a person. God is a lofty and indefinite mystery that abides in the heavens, the Creator. Yes, that's true but yet this is true.
35:41 -  It's a mystery but when you try to reduce a mystery to a definition in order to hold off the heresies that are barking at you from every hand, you see the dilemma the church was in, then you've yet brought new offense to the Jew. Better if you did not seek to define the mystery
36:00 -  and only express it but the fear of heresy, the method, the realistic fear, compelled the church to define articles of faith and come up with its creedal statements that antagonize the Jews all the more and show them that this cannot conceivably be the God of their fathers.
36:19 -  And to this day we inherit the situation. So it's going to take an extraordinary grace from God to find our way in and through it, lest in our relationship with them and in our admiration for their Judaism and for the quality of life and righteousness that they
36:40 -  evidently express, we ourselves would feel that they have no obligation to receive Christ or know Christ unto salvation and that their present Judaism affords already an access to God that is salvational which would be a heresy of an ultimate kind. For this gospel is the power of God unto
37:02 -  salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. So if we by following out the logic of the Lord to seek this relationship and come to an admiration of them by which that gospel is no longer applicable or necessary, oh okay I will let me get it out, then we are not only
37:24 -  cheating the Jew, we're cheating the Greek and we are raising aspersions to the validity of the gospel itself. And when the gospel itself is nullified or threatened or questioned, so does the church itself give down the drain. The issue of the church is the issue of the gospel, the issue
37:41 -  of the gospel is the issue of the Jew. So here we are facing the conundrum lest we be lulled into a place where we would think that they have an equivalent access to God by which they obtain an eternal salvation and have no need of the gospel or its message or its faith. How do we
38:04 -  handle that? This is a remarkable quandary and you're right it raises the question of the possible heresy by which the gospel itself has been negated. So this is an hour of restoration but it's a restoration, are you ready for this, of apostolicity itself.
38:26 -  The issue of Paul with regard to the Jew is the issue of the faith, it's the issue of the genius of the faith. For Paul the issue of the Jew is not some addendum, it's the very issue of the church and its mandate and its responsibility, it's called in the reciprocal relationship
38:47 -  between this people and that's why Romans 9 through 11 is not some afterthought, it's not some addendum to his book, it's the heart of his book. Romans is the most systematic presentation of his apostolic mind and some scholars have rightly suggested as I say over
39:04 -  and over again that Romans 1 through 8 is the preparation for 9 through 12. 9 through 12 is the centerpiece and 9 through 11 rather and 12 through 16 is the outworking as we're reading here. Now make of your acceptable service a living sacrifice and I'll show you
39:28 -  in Romans 15 the scripture that I looked up with four interpretations in verse 16 of chapter 15 and not one of them had an adequate answer to give because they were the theologians more in the spirit of Christostom than they were in the spirit of Paul and that verse in 16 is where Paul
39:52 -  speaks of himself that I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles ministering the gospel of God that the offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable being sanctified by the Holy Ghost a sacrifice constituted by the Gentile believer himself for whom and in whose behalf
40:14 -  is Paul speaking in this priestly way but to the Jew himself because you cannot be in this relationship with the Jew except as a living sacrifice you cannot come to this redemptive relationship with them out of religious well-meaning intention or sense of guilt or any other factor you can
40:34 -  only come to it as a sacrifice out of purified by the spirit made holy and acceptable to God that's how demanding this is and because it's that demanding and requires the uttermost of grace of God is it therefore the most transforming that's why you are transformed in the very act of being
40:54 -  to them what you want see what I mean why didn't God give me for a wife a Jewish woman with long black tresses who looked at me adoringly and understood my prophetic call and we made nothing but sweet music for the last 40 years why do I get a Gentile of the Gentiles who never made it
41:12 -  out of grade school who was offended by virtually every word I said because of inability to follow my English and and isn't as is and is intrinsically a Gentile of the Gentiles as I am a Hebrew the why we are as dissimilar as polarities can get and for that reason there is the benefit
41:33 -  it's a mystery and the Jew is for you what anger is for me but are you in that proximity are you in that relationship are you catching the flak are you having to to live with the deflection daily and being hit by the blind side as only one who is so antithetical to you can
41:52 -  finger it or would you rather have a Jewish wife with black dresses and gets along with you famously what do you want comfort convenience satisfaction gratification recognition or do you want the redemptive work of God that will glorify him forever that's our issue dear saints and
42:11 -  because it's voluntary it's a sacrifice and because it's purified by the spirit it's acceptable unto God the fact that scholars are had five editions of commentary on Romans and four out of the five had nothing to say at this verse you know why they were non-compass nervous they couldn't conceive
42:30 -  of what Paul had in his mind namely that the sacrifice that God is waiting for is the sacrificial relationship of the Gentiles with the Jew as a sweet smelling offering they couldn't conceive it because they have lost the apostolic connection and I want to say that it's the issue
42:52 -  of what is apostolic the issue of Israel the issue of the Jew for the church is the issue of the genius of our faith which is apostolic read apostolic foundations and because we have missed the Jew we have missed it that's why we have become charismatic or merely evangelical
43:12 -  or institutional or hotter writers or whatever it is we have become it's the signal loss that accounts for this lack of apostolic quality and vigor and character and witness is the loss of the Jew in our in our consideration so the means by which we lost it is the means by which we find
43:33 -  it we have to go back to where it was lost and pick it up and desire to be the sacrifice to them Father I want to read the questions that I've sketched out you can help me or alter them for your consideration as smaller groups little committees will form them somehow tomorrow and
43:55 -  you'll be surprised that the enriching things that will come when you're face to face with each other and grappling with these questions you might want to write them as I dictate them one question is if the relationship with Jews in the synagogue was so
44:15 -  mediatorial and beneficial for the Gentile believer in the time of Paul and Rome what is the alternative today how will how can we come into this mediatorial relationship with Jews most of whom today are outside of synagogue connectedness we have a we have a new age here
44:38 -  we've got the factor in what history has wrought if we want to find the reality we have to find it in the context of our time most Jews are not synagogue related most Jews are unGodly most Jews are totally secular in their mindset and mentality and are actually hostile to to views
44:58 -  of God itself how do we relate to them can we avoid them do we deal only with exclusively with religious Jews with whom we have some basis for communication or must we embrace God's Jewish people in the condition which they are how do we find them how do we relate to them
45:17 -  another question what is incumbent upon a non-Jewish Christian today to walk in this what will this require of us how far should we go how far do we allow ourselves to be misunderstood trampled upon have our freedom reduced have our have our concepts and doctrines
45:38 -  questioned or threatened is there a risk of loss or a present threat to our faith in this we're going to be sensible we need to acknowledge that we've not been this way heretofore and it's a ground that is latent with potential bonds what they call it the
46:01 -  landmines so we need to anticipate what will this mean is there a possible risk of loss to our faith in coming into collision with with the people of whom Paul says they are the enemies of the gospel for your sake they are formidable they are intellectual they are intimidating can we
46:21 -  bear that i would say that that's the reason why historically the modern church has circumvented the jew because it intuitively feels inadequate to meet the jew who is so superior in all of these attributes and if we're realistically going to meet them we have to brace ourselves for these
46:38 -  superiorities and what will be the effect upon us if i feel myself trampled and i feel myself battered who is now novice in the faith how will you feel when you come out with a heavy session with jews where they seem to have all the marbles all the answers and your faith has never felt more
46:55 -  weak more pathetic and more inept after remember that it's the foolishness of the gospel that Paul celebrated and it will never be more known to you as foolish until you bring it to the jew and until it until you do you'll not be able to bring it to the greek God has made it foolish
47:14 -  for that very reason what is incumbent upon us in walking in this how are today's conditions critically different from that of rome if it in Paul's time how can we adjust Paul's challenge in the light of these differences Paul's challenge is to come into relationship with your brothers in
47:37 -  their synagogue context and not to inflame them and to engage with them in debates over their judaic customs and laws prevailing about about diet and various other things how can we in today's conditions so different from that of Paul's time how can we adjust to find the same challenge
48:04 -  for us as was the challenge for them we need that challenge but where is it to be found if the synagogue is no longer the prevalent institution of jewish life and would they receive us to whatever degree it is if there is a jewish synagogue unlikely there
48:22 -  is in every community represented here how do we present ourselves as we have already mentioned how do we set forth what we're desiring with them in a way in which they would reasonably consider it seeing how hyper they are about any kind of missionary effort to rob them of
48:40 -  their jewish identity by quote becoming christians that's what it means to them so you see what a task we have this will not only require extreme thoughtfulness in advance of going to them but the depths of prayer of intercession as if we are going into the darkest jungles of africa
49:02 -  and the most remote places in the earth where the gospel is not being heard and where we would have the most strenuous opposition we're going now into the jungles of beauty as and so to speak we're going into the densest matrix of modern life of which jews are
49:17 -  the exemplars and the authors freud and marx have their modern day corollaries that have affected our civilization not the least of which is the whole amusement entertainment area of men like steven spielberg so we're confronting the whole mentality of culture a depth of civilization
49:42 -  that is anti-christ in its very nature if you think you can enter that and and and succeed in that without a depth of prayer preparation and intercession you are the most naive of all believers that means that there's a new premium in the church for for intercession and preparation
50:04 -  and prayer before we encounter them and right now up from now our prayer has been altogether too light too superficial because it has not been that urgent can you see the dynamic in the mystery the very issue of the jew compels us to be prayerful compels the church to pray corporately
50:22 -  that means we've got to sit down with those with whom we've not gotten along too well and be in agreement and spirit so now we've got to take up those relationships and deal with them and not look the other way if there's a resentment and the thing that we've allowed to slide because
50:37 -  we can get by if we're not in this intensive relationship the issue of the jew is inserting that central factor that dynamic that compels the church to be the church but it's the cross it'll be a new suffering a new requirement but it will glorify God on what basis should
50:58 -  synagogue and jewish or leadership be appreciated or acknowledged how do we commend ourselves to them is what i'm asking in view of their missionary fears and traditional anti-christian prejudices it'll take more than words it will take a reality a winsomeness grace
51:23 -  in favor that God will give with men when we have sought him for that grace that even one but while they're opposed to us yet there's an affection that they cannot disallow as i have with my rabbi you you'll need to find as non-jewish believers with the jewish
51:40 -  authorities of your own community can you persuade them can you convince them that this is not some artifice this is not some shenanigan this is not some clever new missionary tactic this is an authentic deep heartfelt recognition of something that has been lost to us historically
51:57 -  and needs to be regained in which they need to be our partners that'll take some convincing but you'll need more than just a clever vocabulary you need the reality behind the vocabulary so lord precious God on high what have you put before us today
52:17 -  my God we have to groan and say with Paul who have never ever expressed it our contemporary christianity has never required that we should say with Paul who is sufficient for these things but we're saying it now we're trembling lord what is this guy putting before us my God
52:36 -  who's sufficient for this we've not been this way here before we're fearful we're insecure we're intimidated by this people but we're asking mercy we're asking grace that we have celebrated grace but we need now to know it as a substantive reality when we stand before them
52:56 -  and see their wall behind them laden with diplomas and honors and and their vocabulary their language and their deportment is so intimidating lord you know it we were high school dropouts we've probably gotten through by every human and natural reckoning there's no contest and yet
53:15 -  you're calling us to this people and if it's a call that we cannot ignore or deny so we're asking courage we're asking a desire to an agreement to choose what you're choosing to make up my God for the historic loss to be the church of such fullness that the that the deliver
53:37 -  must come out of that sire bless these children lord there's not a soul who have heard has heard these things today who is here by happenstance every single one of these men and women have been brought in this time for this word because you have prepared them you have fitted them you have
53:56 -  given them sufficient preparation sufficient history both to understand them to say yes to such a call is this so here they yes however faint however weak however crumbling and by it release those things that are needful that there might become there might come a fulfillment in the
54:15 -  very localities where you have planted them for we ask it lord in Jesus name take a moment you dear saints to say yes in your heart to God we have more than a moment ingras 15 minutes behind so let's let's talk to the lord out of your seats what do you say to him after this morning after
54:37 -  today knowing that this was not in any way rehearsed this is all together spontaneously the heart of God being sent before us as i in a way and i suggested in prayer time that we've not been been here too far the church has never heard a word like this it's never heard a call like this
54:59 -  what do we say to our privilege to being the first to have it sounded in our hearing what should be our first response to such a God to such a call let him hear you it's historic there's something being established in the heavenlies if witnesses the invisible witnesses
55:19 -  are looking down with bated breath to wait to hear our yes because they're not complete without it well at the same time our adversaries of the dark powers of the era are wanting to stultify nullify put a fear in us and get us to withhold ourselves from say giving God our yes come dear
55:39 -  saints you decide something in this moment because further illumination will not offer you know enough now to say yes and note to God to this remarkable call by which the church becomes the church and he is glorified forever