The Abrahamic Faith (2of 2)

00:00 -  Jehovah reckoned Abram's faith to him as righteousness by making a covenant with him, by taking Abram into covenant fellowship with himself. When he says he imputed righteousness because Abram believed,
00:18 -  as I said before, he imputed his life. He gave his life in covenant. You give me your back in your life, I give you mine. And that you have given me yours is indicated by the slaying of these animals. You're identified
00:32 -  with them. On that day he made a covenant. Abraham's faith was Abraham's act. Faith is an act. It's not just a mental assent. It's an obedience.
00:53 -  And the killing of the animals indicates an obedience unto death. This is cat's mouth speaking, not their lips. If faith is not a faith unto death, is it really a faith?
01:05 -  Now what does that mean? A faith unto death. Could you give me a synonym? When you say a faith unto death, if it's not a faith unto death, it's not faith.
01:20 -  Faith unto final end. It's a faith that goes all the way. It's all the way. It has no thought for itself, no regard for the consequence, what it may be, our benefit or our loss. It's all the way. It's
01:35 -  unto death. Or it's not faith. If there's any hedging, any reservation, any conditional holding back, any partialness, instead of totality, it is not Abrahamic faith. And when God saw that faith, he made a covenant with him in that day. If Abraham had thought, well, I'll give him this
01:59 -  animal but I won't give him that. I'll give this portion but I won't give that. There would not have been covenant. There's a requirement for totality because God gives himself in totality. Because that's his nature.
02:19 -  And so he brought Abraham into covenant fellowship with himself. Wow. What greater gift. How giving God is. The givingness of himself to a man. Because I am thy great reward. I'm your shield. Don't be afraid. You have me. Not just my support or when you're in a crisis clutch situation.
02:50 -  From this covenant time on, I am with you, in you. I am your very life, your support, your sustenance, your all. Walk thou before me and be thou perfect. I am the Lord God Almighty. He says to Abraham in another place, I'm giving my life. I'm giving you all. Why should you be
03:10 -  afraid? I'm your security, your wisdom, your courage. Because you gave your all. Okay. Remember when Jacob slept on a rock, when the sun came down on Jacob, the sun set on Jacob. Isn't it remarkable? Every pivotal key episode in the patriarchal history of the nation of Israel
03:32 -  somehow takes place in darkness. When the sun was set on Jacob is more than just the sun going down. The sun means anything in which Jacob had hoped has been demolished. He's a fugitive. He's in flight. He's in fear for his very life. The sun has set on every Jacob aspect of his life.
03:55 -  Then God appears to him in a dream and he sees the ladder set up for the heavens. Remember that? And he says, how dreadful is this place? You know where we say awful? You see, we have lost the meaning of words. Dread and awe is the very sense of the otherness of God. And we have lost
04:21 -  God. And we have lost that sense. There is no fear of God in the church. But when he comes in wrath, men will hide themselves in the cleft of rocks and say to the mountains fallen us to flee from the face of him who comes. The fear of God will smite men who are today blasphemers,
04:42 -  who use the name of Jesus as a curse without thinking twice. Then gray fear. It is for us to nurture, cultivate, and hold this sense of God, the sense of his dread. So that don't be afraid of me. Don't make me a commonplace. I'm not your buddy.
05:01 -  There's a respect. I'm something other. And yet I'm joining with you. And I'll be your defense. So we need not to confuse these kinds of fear. There is darkness, clouds, judgment, wrath, fire, is the setting of Israel's final history, its last episode in earth, before it comes into
05:26 -  the same union that Abraham did. Is Israel presently in this covenant relation? It has forfeited their covenant. But he makes with them a new covenant. And that brings up the question, if this text is symbolic of Israel's final coming into this through clouds and darkness and wrath
05:50 -  and fire, how is it that Abraham slept through it in his vision? After driving away these devouring birds, it says, and Abraham slept. Where does it say that? Verse 12, a deep sleep fell upon Abraham and behold, terror and great darkness fell upon him. And it came about when the sun had set,
06:13 -  verse 17, that it was very dark. This is that same time. And behold, there appeared a smoking of the flaming torch which passed between his pieces. On that day, the Lord made a covenant with Abraham because his sleep incapacitated him from being an actual participant. Because when
06:31 -  the covenant is made, the two who make the covenant pass through the pieces. In this covenant, it is only the flaming torch and the smoking pot symbolic of God and his glory alone. Abraham is sleeping and out of the picture altogether as participant. Because this is a vision given by God,
06:54 -  every detail is divinely ordered. So if God in the detail sees that a deep sleep comes over him, is not taking a nap. This is something that's come from God to keep him out from being participant. And my question is, why? And then Jim rightly says, hey, that's just like Israel. In a certain sense,
07:18 -  they will be out of it also. Something will happen to them and for them, but independent of them. And that even when their repentance comes, it comes as a gift. When the Lord comes in Zechariah 12 to save Israel out of its final extremity, when two-thirds of Jerusalem has already
07:39 -  been lost and one-third has yet to pass through the fire, it says, upon the city of David and on Jerusalem comes the spirit of supplication and of prayer. And they shall see him whom they have pierced and mourn for him as one mourns for one's only son and be in bitterness as one is in
08:00 -  bitterness for one's firstborn. It's actually grace and supplication. Grace and grace and supplication is what's... So you know how I read that? God does not allow Israel in any way out of its own religiosity, its own ethicality to exhibit itself. It is pure grace. It is pure gift. Even the ability
08:25 -  to mourn and repent is given by the gift of the spirit of supplication. And the repentance is a gift of God. Isn't that what the scripture tells us? It's the goodness of God that leadeth men to repentance because God is God and no flesh will share his glory. That's why Paul ends the great
08:49 -  drama of Israel and the church in Romans 9 to 11, for of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory forever. He could have said to whom alone be glory forever because if it's not alone his glory, it's not his glory. We don't know God as we ought and that's why we touch his glory
09:13 -  and seek to find a place in it and mix our own motives with his work and make it impure and unpriestly. He will not be owing to any man or to any nation. Israel is a witness nation of man in its finest ability and God will not allow it to succeed on that basis at all. He didn't allow
09:39 -  Abraham to succeed on that basis. When Abraham was 90 years old and nine, when he looked upon his body as being dead and was beyond all human hope, Abraham believed in God. Jesus would not trust himself to any man for he knew what was in man although they said that he
10:08 -  must be Messiah because they saw the miraculous things that he did but he would not allow himself to be known by them or to be received of them on the basis of what they saw with their natural eyes for he would not entrust himself to man and even his cousin John the Baptist who grew up with
10:29 -  him and must have recognized the exceptional quality of this relative did not introduce him to Israel as the Messiah in the waters of Jordan on the basis of his natural knowledge but when the dove came down and abode on him that was the revelation that this is the chosen one
10:50 -  the lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world it was not John's natural knowledge that was the basis for communicating to Israel who this one is it was the confirmation of the dove from heaven and the voice of the father this is my son in whom I am well pleased how we need to have
11:09 -  to have that so etched in our hearts God will not be beholding to any man he will not trust in any man's flesh Abraham had to sleep for this is God's covenant and Israel will sleep and receive receive an everlasting covenant I will make a new covenant with you not the covenant of the kind
11:30 -  that I made with your fathers which they broke though I was a husband unto them and this shall be my covenant I will write it in your hearts and in your spirits and I will be in you to fulfill it it'll no more be men telling one another about God you shall all know me not by virtue of your
11:47 -  Talmudic expertise but by the impartation of myself in your heart and in your spirit that's what makes this new and it's not only new it's everlasting you know why you'll never fail you'll never break it you broke all the other ones you have demonstrated your religious incapacity
12:05 -  to fulfill covenant but now I'll make an enduring and everlasting one you'll never break it because you don't keep it I keep it I who have made it keep it you sleep this is fellowship God offers himself in fellowship to Abraham he gives himself because Abraham was obedient what
12:27 -  was Abraham's faith that made him righteous he cut up the sacrifice he laid it open he parted the parts that doesn't it's an irretrievable giving you know that word something that cannot be taken back again Humpty Dumpty fell off the wall and all the Kingsmen could not put them together again
12:50 -  you're not going to take back you're not going to grab this back once you're committed as common that's it how do you like that for marriage and if you don't like it for marriage how then do you like it for God yeah
13:06 -  this is the basis for marriage irretrievable no taking back once and for all unto death and when you do it with that readiness of mind the covenant keeping God is there to supply the life that makes that union possible as against every stupefying shrieking difficulty and
13:29 -  impossibility of how can it work a Jew with a Gentile a Brooklyn University intellectual with a simple girl who had to make signs to communicate in the first time of coming together with Inge and you're in union and something has to come from that and it's got to be enduring
13:50 -  against every futility and hopelessness defeat and despair yes God is in covenant and as we said the other day the fact that divorce is as rife in the church as it is in the world is the statement of how much the church has lost its sense of covenant that's right and the God
14:14 -  of covenant is the God who creates it and the God who keeps it and the God who fulfills it and if you don't know God as the covenant making and the covenant keeping do you really know him and maybe that's why we've got to go through the fire that's why we have to pass through the smoke
14:34 -  because it's got to burn up among other things an inadequate concept of God that was convenient for us but was not him and that isn't that exactly Israel's condition even its religious condition let alone its secular condition they simply do not know as they love to know
14:51 -  and you cannot know except through the fire so what is this faith that God honored by coming into covenant fellowship with Abraham himself given himself it's to trust to believe he gives the hebrew words here
15:14 -  oman from ha amin which means to trust as well as to believe it expresses that state of mind which is sure of its object and relies firmly upon it as denoting conduct toward God as a firm inward personal self-surrendering reliance upon a personal being this is the most beautiful
15:42 -  definition of faith that i have ever read because here's a scholar who has the advantage of the hebrew language and burrows into the root of the hebrew words to give us a dimension of its meaning beyond what we have allowed called faith to become in our time which is creedal faith where you
16:02 -  subscribe to the correctness of doctrine yes i believe that Jesus were written and then yeah i believe he's born of a virgin there's believing and believing what is the kind of believing that God honors by giving himself in communion and in union in covenant which by the way is renewed
16:21 -  every time you take the cup of covenant the lord's supper is a renewing of this compact of agreement and we're eating and drinking the lord afresh but we're drawing again we're we're showing again we're cast upon his life because the journey is too great for us eat and drink the angel said
16:43 -  to Elijah a second time and what have we done with that sacrament we've made it a religious plastic cup and a little waffle we take it all together when we're not together and that's what the scripture says contend for the faith once and for all given the saints
17:08 -  we've got to fight for the saints we've got to fight for a true meaning of faith in an age in which it is deprecated and made something other than what God understood with April but that's what we're doing here we're not just reviewing something we're fighting
17:22 -  for something and that's why the birds are coming down wanting to devour us giving me a blind eye and and fear and everything breaking loose and then you're losing the thing and and isn't what's showing if my hand were not upon you and my light shadow were not with you
17:38 -  you guys would be devastated and bowled over this building would be in flames there'd be bulldozers pushing it in what they did in Waco Texas they will do with you that's right the fact that they haven't is that my hand of restraint is upon you
17:51 -  and you're not in the arrogant spirit of those men who defied the public authorities and ended in the way that they did as your faith is so be it unto you and your faith is the meaning that you understand in coming to the communion table
18:09 -  and that you're not only in communion with God in authenticity in the sacrificial giving up of yourself as you have come in union with your spouse and giving up your your singleness but also with the church you're giving your life up also to others in the church you would enjoy
18:30 -  your privacy but the demands of the body require your participation and you give yourself in communion and if it's not in truth with those with whom we're joined horizontally how is it true with him vertically and i so you've heard me say that when the gospel came to Scotland
18:51 -  through this Irish missionary Colombo that before they came to the Scottish mainland they lived on an island off the coast of Scotland from Ireland for two years and then after that the Lord released them to come before the stronghold of the picked PICTS this ancient
19:12 -  pagan people who were notorious for bloodshed and violence and they had a double walled fortress and Colombo according to church legend stood before that impenetrable fortress and they were just weak men in themselves and he made the sign of the cross and when he made the sign of the cross
19:31 -  the gate opened of itself and when the king saw this he fell on his face and he had his entire nation subscribed to Colombo's God and that's how the gospel came to Scotland of which we have a peace sitting at this table now my question is how come the gate opened how come the form of
19:51 -  every formidable opposition to the truth of God had to open because a man made a gesture because it was not an empty gesture or a vain gesture or a mere religious gesticulation it was a truth a statement of truth that is both vertical and horizontal that they were in union
20:13 -  with God and with each other that's why they had two years on the island together establishing the truth of their reality as church and that that truth opened the gate against which no man can stand what has God said about the church the gates of hell will not prevail against you
20:33 -  that's if you are the church the covenant honoring and covenant keeping church if you just church in name if you're just institutional ceremonial or something else nothing will be moved
20:50 -  so this covenant i can't say enough for it what this means and the depth of it and how its first expression requires all of these symbolic elements the animals cut in half not just something given in part in totality full the full measure nothing was held and God
21:12 -  nothing was held and God honors it by his own glory passing through while the code covenant party sleeps not in indifference or boredom or tiredness but in the sleep that God puts upon him to show i exclusively have given this covenant you didn't call for it and i exclusively will keep it
21:33 -  um that's why it's everlasting but it requires an inward personal self-surrendering reliance upon a personal being
21:46 -  especially upon the source of all being because it is sure of its object and relies firmly upon it in an inward personal self-surrendering reliance unto death ye though he slay me yet will i trust him it is unconditional trust in the lord and his word even where the natural course of events
22:21 -  furnishes no ground for hope or expectation this is daylich writing and i penciled in where he says even i wrote especially where the natural course of events furnishes no ground for hope or expectation
22:39 -  isn't that the picture in many ways of the church in the gospel to the jewel they have all the models they have everything going for them and they're the man of the year they have the benet brith plaque on their wall they've never raised their voices to their wives
22:53 -  david they are the most exemplary cultured and ethical model people and here we are knockabouts we're struggling to make it through we see our defects daily with nothing our equity is ever before us and God calls us to stand before them and bring to them the power of the gospel
23:20 -  everything militates against it it is the it is an ultimate collision of impossibilities what is faith faith believes that though in the word of God especially where the natural course of events furnishes no ground for hope or expectation because the word of God says this
23:41 -  gospel is the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes to the jew first and also the greek faith acts on the word of God despite every natural appearance to the contrary faith acts according to his word
24:07 -  especially where the natural course of events furnishes no ground for hope or expectation faith is believing the word of God in action against every thing that is to the contrary and by this faith abraham was placed in living fellowship with God
24:28 -  and that's why righteousness was accounted to him for the life of God is the righteousness of God he didn't receive a virtue an ethical category he received the life of God and the life of God is righteous and it's the only source of righteousness
24:47 -  that's why God could say depart from me you workers of iniquity for i never knew you but lord didn't we do this didn't we do that yeah you did a lot of things but you did not do it on out of my life you did it out of your own religious energy out of your
25:03 -  own natural ability and it's unrighteous it's wicked you you're a worker of iniquity the only thing that would have made that work righteous is if its fulfillment had come out of the energy of my life it's not what the work is it's the source by which it is performed and that life
25:25 -  is available only in communion by covenant relating people who trust God totally and what do we make then of these animals one of every species of the animal suitable sacrifice and abraham took these and divided them in the midst and placed one half opposite to the other
25:47 -  well we can ask the question what if abraham omitted even so much as one of these animals even the so much as one of these animals even the smallest of them say one of the birds the the dove
26:05 -  what if he gave everything but one would God give him like a high batting average you know you come and you hit three out of ten you're a candidate for the hall of fame the beauty of this is and the point that this is totality
26:24 -  the big thing and the small thing and you cannot you cannot omit anything you hold nothing back for yourself you remember when God gave the commandment to saul who was then king through the prophet samuel to destroy the amalekites and to spare not infant suckling camel sheep
26:47 -  oxen s and they did most of that but they spared amalek the king of the amalekites and the best of the sheep and the oxen to make a sacrifice unto the lord and it said samuel wept all the night and what does what does God say to soul the next day through the prophet
27:10 -  sacrifice obedience is better than sacrifice and as you did not obey the lord i will remove from you your kingdom partial obedience is disobedience you can quote me partial obedience is disobedience when God calls for the ox the ass the whatever as well as the
27:37 -  birds these maybe the birds are that the little thing that you would think well you can get away with or hold back for yourself is the final measure of the totality to which you give yourself so we need to interpret these symbols here's what i wrote in the margin about what it means
27:55 -  to give of every species of animal suitable for sacrifice aram took these and divided them in the midst totally all that was required irretrievably that means cannot be taken back you're not going to glue these pieces together again once they are cut and separated that's it you don't take back
28:17 -  your singleness your single status you don't reserve for yourself your own name we just received this interesting the coincidence of a letter from europe where the the and we know this precious family over the years they are now divorced and instead of changing the address label
28:40 -  we sent this newsletter with the same address label to mrs that that that that that well the first that that that is her own name and the second is the name of husband and she takes the envelope with the label and puts it into her new envelope and sends it back and crosses out his
28:57 -  name and she's making clear that i'm now divorced i don't want his name but what needs to be made clear to her what probably made your divorce inevitable was that you never crossed out your name when you came into covenant with that man and took his name his identity his purpose and
29:16 -  his being totally for your own you you there were the seeds of the destruction of that marriage from the beginning and she has told me in private conversation i never gave myself over to my husband i always had doubt whether this was made in heaven that i said to her once it is consummated
29:39 -  whatever its origin it's made it once it is consummated whatever its origin it's made in heaven if you've read ben Israel you know how i came together with england not under the most auspicious circumstances and i fought against it and i was trying to make the best of the bad thing
29:56 -  but it wasn't working until i came to a place in my understanding and faith that whatever the origin once it is established in marriage it is made in heaven and you have no out you have no out you can't point back to well i don't know i had doubts at that time that's the enemy those are the birds
30:18 -  coming down from heaven to devour you got to fight them off fight off those thoughts that want to nullify covenant in which God his part and will bring it to fulfillment for his glory not your compatibility the issue of marriage is not your getting along that's right it's not your
30:39 -  compatibility and your enjoyment it's his glory that's right it's an enactment it's a depiction of the covenant making God and if it fails in your marriage how shall it succeed with Israel that's right i remember i had a meeting in in canada and through separate doors came a
30:54 -  german couple whom i've known for years the wife threw ex-wife through one door they had already begun their divorce proceedings and the husband through another and they sat in on a message on Israel and God's last day's restoration because he's obligated because of the covenant
31:09 -  that i have made with you the delivery shall come out of zion when when the fullness of the gentiles we come in and so as it is written that the liver shall come out of zion and take transgressions from jacob according to the covenant that i have made with them
31:32 -  they may have failed they may not have been faithful but i have made that covenant and i'm under obligation to fulfill it despite them that's why abraham slept it's not his ability i who made it will fulfill it and so i gave an invitation for people who are going to stand
31:54 -  with God's purposes for Israel and she stood in one part of the room and he stood in the other and so after the service i went up to them and said what you believe God for his honoring of his covenant to Israel in the last days he will restore them to himself how then are you going
32:10 -  to a divorce court because you cannot believe it for your own marriage where do you think they are today they never went through with it because they were on the on the horns of a dilemma that they could stand to believe God for Israel and they could not believe for their own marriage
32:29 -  they saw that the terrible contradiction and they had to go along though they thought it was hopeless and they're married to the state and doing well it's because God keeps us in union that what we think is impossible finally is attended in the way that not only just makes it workable but makes it
32:49 -  glorious but i'm believing for that so long as we honor covenant and stay together i want it because God's honor is at stake he who makes it will keep it okay we've got to move on these are precious thoughts and considerations
33:09 -  well listen to what david says written long before the hitler time the choice of sacrificial animals for a transaction which was not strictly a sacrifice was founded upon the symbolic significance of the sacrificial animals that is upon the fact that they represented
33:28 -  and took the place of those who offered them see these animals stood for something it's your death that's being depicted in the death of the animal in the case before us they were meant to typify or to be symbolic of the promised seed of abraham in other words something was being
33:49 -  transacted with those animals that was suggestive of the seed of abraham for the generations to come that they would pass through the fire that that there's a time when all Israel is somehow symbolized already in the sacrifice that God that abraham is putting before God
34:11 -  it's suggestive of the future of the people of the sea of abraham himself and their diversity in the in the forms of animals that are represented this is where you just kind of walk out on a plank or a tight wire you're
34:27 -  you're feeling for something and i appreciate his thought which is all the more real to us now than it could have been when he wrote it that these animals are descriptive and suggestive of the variety of abraham's descendants the northern tribes the southern tribes the
34:43 -  ashkenazic the syphotic all of the the secular the atheistic the religious all of them mishmash that makes up jewelry God's people is represented in the diversity of the animals that are put before God that day and it says in exodus when they um covenanted for this
35:03 -  the sinai covenant of the ten commandments not only you who are before us this day but also those who will be your descendants are caught up i'm paraphrasing i don't know the exact words are caught up and are implicated and are involved in this transaction you're not just
35:24 -  transacting for yourself you're transacting for generations yet and that's symbolic and deliches saying in the diversity of the animals they represent and typify the promised seed of abraham but in the case before us the animals represent represented abraham in his seed not
35:47 -  in the fact that they're being slaughtered as significant as the slaying of that seed but only what happens to in connection with the slaughtered animals birds of prey attempted to eat them and when dark extreme darkness came on the glory of God passed through them all the
36:01 -  seed of abraham was concerned one of every kind of animal suitable for sacrifice was taken well maybe here i would depart from him and say that it is significant of the slaying of that seed and that out of the death of the remnant comes its restoration the eight animals the eight
36:25 -  parts representing resurrection and the day of new beginnings or newness of a restored nation and that's why the birds wanted to eat that up they don't want the final meaning of what was represented here for it's the end of the birds
36:43 -  it's the end of the false usurping Gods of this world and so the transaction here's what i'm saying is finalized in God's approval of that sacrifice he validates it by his own presence
36:58 -  just as he did in darkness over the crucifixion of Jesus when great darkness covered the earth and God brought and received a firstborn son the birds of prey represented the foes of Israel who would seek to he writes eat up that is
37:19 -  exterminate it that remarkable that long before the hitler time he employs this word to eat up to be valid is to exterminate them and the fact that abram frightened them away was a sign that abram's faith in his relation to the to the lord would preserve the whole of his posterity
37:41 -  from destruction that Israel here's the punchline saints would be saved for abram's sake what does abram driving the birds away represent he sleeps through everything else but God allows him this act this one act because of those birds had succeeded he would not only have invalidated
38:03 -  the initial covenant but all of its meaning for the future descendants of abraham seed which is yet to take place and it's the faith of abraham as an act drives them away or let's say abrahamic faith through the another seed of abraham that preserves the sacrifice and enables its final
38:24 -  fulfillment in Israel namely the church lord give me a grace to try and express this that there's a seed of abraham which Paul quite clearly tells us in glasians is the church who share the faith of abraham and that their final task is to drive away the birds that would seek
38:46 -  to devour this the other seed of abraham which is Israel they would be saved for the seed of abram's sake or to say zion's sake deliverance will come out of zion which fits in so well with all that i understand of God's purpose for the church in its last days posture toward Israel
39:08 -  when the birds will come down and seek to exterminate it the only thing that will preserve a remnant of that people are the seed of abraham that is the church that will protect nurture uh give refuge and help to preserve that final restoration that concludes the age
39:31 -  and establishes God's restored nation and his kingdom and his glory well are you understanding it's going to take abraham's faith on our part to drive those birds away this is that abrahamic faith that drives away the devourers and provides and a very factual
39:52 -  and actual fulfillment will take place in the wilderness according to ezekiel 20 i will meet with you in the wilderness of the nations revelation 12 of the woman um who is given wings of an eagle and flies into the wilderness where she is kept or fed for three and a half years
40:14 -  so it's the abrahamic faith of the seed of abraham the church the true church the remnant church the wilderness church the overcoming church that preserves the sacrifice from being devoured in that final day that's that's all of that is encompassed in this initial vision
40:34 -  that was given abraham so i just want to read that again we can end and pray on that uh thing that takes place when the sun is set which he says is the departure of grace which at one time had shown upon Israel and the commencement of a dark and dreadful period of
40:52 -  suffering for Israel's posterity that's the time of jacob's trouble yet future a time of dark and a dreadful period that if God did not cut the time short as we heard last night no flesh no jewish flesh would survive it will exceed every previous tribulation and suffering of
41:11 -  jews including the previous holocaust even what was described to us in that holly thing that you said about they hung the strangled children around the neck while they crucified women and that this tribulation will exceed all previous suffering it's it's a darkness and a dread that
41:30 -  is hard now even to be imagined and we even said on the overseas trip we wondered if there's some symbolic significance in i in the wilderness prophet elijah being fed by a widow woman with the last of her flower and her oil and he says feed me first and because she
41:54 -  did her oil did not cease nor did her flower was producing from the exhaust that the feeding of the prophet was the very key to the sustenance of a woman who would otherwise have expired and that the giving of ourselves to the remnant of Israel in the last days tribulation when we
42:12 -  cannot buy nor shall have we not take the mark of the number released is God's provision for the remnant church in the abundance that he will give because we give that's right and give to them first before ourselves in the wilderness that's faith that's abrahamic faith that believes in its God
42:31 -  it's a faith unto death and that is will be saved then for zion's sake in that dark and dreadful period of suffering that is yet future when the sun sets on jacob that they might become Israel the things in the beginning have a remarkable indication of things also at the end so the
42:52 -  restoration of Israel in the last days will be also a judgment on those who have opposed Israel even as those canaanitish people did and their descendants to this day oppose them but the point for us now we've got to conclude is that there's a remarkable significance in
43:13 -  abraham driving away the birds that would seek to devour the one act allowed him and that is indicative or suggestive of a people of the last days who are the seed of abraham not the jewish seed but the gentile seed the church of God the zion of God who drive away
43:34 -  those that would seek to devour that people represented in that sacrifice and also provide for them the things that make for their survival and their return and go back over this text don't don't think that it's exhausted we're only opening and
43:53 -  beginning something but uh remarkable what is given in the book of beginnings so lord we bless you and love you God of the covenant remarkable when you are willing to give of yourself in totality even the righteousness of your life to those who give of themselves in
44:17 -  totality without taking back lord we bless you it's only on that basis that it can be for you what we bought in these last days when we look about my God there will be full of discouragement and overwhelming things but it will be the covenant keeping God whose life will be given to us in
44:38 -  fellowship and in union that will enable us to succeed in all that is before us in preserving the remnant of Israel in their last days darkness and judgment and fire we would like these things in our hearts show it to us in other ways help us to reveal my God the precious new covenant the
44:58 -  everlasting covenant which we have been brought and may it be renewed and strengthened with every eating and drinking of your body and blood in truth thank you God for this morning in Jesus