The Feast Of The Passover

00:00 -  In the Christian Church, I think that the Church has suffered greatly for the absence of Jewish believers in its midst. I'm even pained by the main Judaism in Christianity, because I know there's one God, one faith,
00:16 -  one Messiah, one salvation, one way. And the word Christianity has become so odious to Jewish people for historical reasons that I have on my own card printed, messianic Judaism according to the Scriptures.
00:31 -  So I'm grateful that we're all believers in messianic Judaism according to the Scriptures. And if you knew what the Jewish Passover represented, and the Jews knew that the Christian Easter represented, and it all comes out of this one table, how reconciled we would be in that
00:52 -  one faith. So I'm grateful for this opportunity tonight, of a very inadequate instrument to show this. My own Jewish background was spotty and incomplete, and you know from my testimony that I was
01:04 -  an atheist until six years ago, and went only to the most mechanical forms of Jewish life. But I became a Jew the day that God saved me. And so I want to ask God's blessing on this table, and that He'll really break this.
01:20 -  I'm going to answer, Jesus Himself will preside over this Passover table, because if the Father of the house that presides over the Passover table, what could be more precious than the same Jesus who presided over the table, that last Passover, will preside for us by His
01:37 -  Spirit tonight, and break to us the deep spiritual meanings of the things that we have laid out here. Won't you join your heart with me now, and let's look to God for this blessing.
01:46 -  Christ the Holy God, you're wonderful. We don't have words for you, but our hearts cry out to you, Lord God. We told you, that you're a living God.
02:08 -  You're not such a stagger, Lord, that we can't find a way to express our gratitude. And as we kind of ascended, Lord, to meet us and to save us and to redeem us out of ourselves and out of our sins, out of all the sins that would be grating and bring us
02:26 -  into a life that's holy, we don't have words for that. It's so much better than religion, it's life. And we ask you, Lord God, who is the author of life, the author of redemption, who made
02:41 -  it possible by your own body to come tonight by thy Spirit, Lord, and open the meaning of this Passover table. We invite you, Lord, to take charge by thy Spirit, deeply bless thy people, and imprint
02:55 -  upon their hearts and their consciousness the meaning of this supper, Lord God, this Lord's supper, this Passover table, that every time they take the communion from this night forward, that they'll take it in a deeper way, with a richer understanding than ever
03:11 -  before they've known you. Touch their hearts for thy Jewish people, and do all tonight that pleases thee. Save those who know thee not, and Jesus may we ask it.
03:22 -  Amen. Amen. Amen.
03:25 -  Amen. Amen. Some people have been asking me about this book that I've mentioned.
03:31 -  I'm so happy to talk about it, because I think it's the most explosive book that could ever be offered to Jewish people, and not Jews only, but speculative people and modern people and intellectuals who cannot believe.
03:47 -  This book is the extended journal that I carried for 14 months in the year that God saved me six years ago. It's a fantastic account of God and Church of the Men.
03:57 -  A skeptical Jew will be able to pick that book up and put it down and finish reading it and say that this is a contrived story or this is just a piece of art from this written by men.
04:07 -  It's full of the power and the Spirit of God. We have some literature, some cards right by the table here addressed to the publisher and you can take one of several of these and send them in.
04:20 -  You'll be informed when the book is available, the little pink slip that describes the book. I gave the testimony the other night and several copies of a transcribed version of the testimony which I gave in Jerusalem, a night in which 25 Jews were saved across the street from
04:35 -  the place where I was saved at the King's Hotel. That was printed up in this edition. I don't have too many copies and I'm just going to ask those people to take them who
04:44 -  have a Jewish friend that they want to give this to. Then some have asked about what organization I work for. We have some books here about that work on the table also and then a few copies of the
04:56 -  magazine which we publish monthly. Let's open up our Bibles to the 12th chapter of the book of Exodus. You read the biblical background of this great saga of the Lord Jesus Christ.
05:11 -  You read the biblical background of this great saga of the Lord Jesus Christ. You read the biblical background of this great saga, the great story of redemption that God worked out in the history of the Jewish people.
05:28 -  Fantastic type, a forecast of a spiritual redemption to come for all mankind. You know how the Jews were groaning in bondage in Egypt and even as our brother reminded us this afternoon, the whole of nature is groaning and yearnings to have redemption,
05:53 -  that final redemption of God when we'll come into that utter and complete freedom in him of which the Passover is a very deep symbolic suggestion. Let's look at the 12th chapter of Exodus then and God has raised up an instrument through
06:08 -  Moses to deliver his people and the Lord spoke unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt saying, This month shall be unto you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year to you.
06:19 -  Speaking unto all the congregation of Israel saying, In the tenth day of this month they shall take to them every man a lamb according to the house of their fathers a landful house. In the fifth verse your lamb shall be without blemish.
06:32 -  A man of the first year you shall take it out from the chief or from the goats and you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month. And the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening.
06:44 -  And they shall take of the blood and strike it on a two-sided post and on the upper door post of the houses wherein they shall eat it. And they shall eat the flesh and that night roast with fire and unleavened bread and with
06:55 -  bitter herbs they shall eat it. Eat not of it raw, nor boil it with water, but roast with fire, or tear it with its legs and with the inward parts thereof.
07:02 -  And you shall let nothing of it remain until the morning and that which remains of it until the morning you shall burn with fire. And thus shall you eat it with your long skirt and your shoes on your feet and your stamp
07:13 -  in your hand and you shall eat it in haste. It is the Lord's Passover. For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night and will smite all the firstborn
07:23 -  of the land of Egypt both man and beast and against all the Gods of Egypt I will execute judgment. I am the Lord.
07:32 -  And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where you are and when I see the blood I will pass over you and the glory shall not be upon you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt.
07:44 -  And this glory shall be unto you for a memorial and you shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations. You shall keep it a feast by an ordinance forever.
07:55 -  This is a quick moment to look at some of these scriptures. God saw this occasion so utterly significant that he made this the first of months, the beginning of the calendar for the Jewish people.
08:11 -  This comes in the April of our year, Lisan, the Hebrew calendar. It's the springtime. It's the time of birth and the time of new things.
08:19 -  It's the time of life coming out of death. And notice that they should take a lamb in its first year, in the prime of its life, in other words, a lamb without blemish, a male, and you shall keep it until the fourteenth
08:34 -  day of the same month. It shall be chosen on the tenth day and kept until the fourteenth day, then shall it be slain.
08:40 -  For four days it should be kept on public observation that if there be any fault in that lamb, if there be any defect, any stock or any blemish, it cannot be used. It was on the tenth day that Jesus made a triumphant entry into Jerusalem and on the
08:57 -  fourteenth day that he suffered his crucifixion. For four days he was on public view and he said to his accusers, which of you convict me of sin?
09:09 -  And also by Jewish reckoning, any portion of the day is considered a whole day, any portion of the year considered a whole year. We know that the public ministry of Jesus was three and a half years, or by Jewish reckoning,
09:20 -  four years. For four years the Lamb of God was on public view that if there be any defect or spot or blemish found in him, he could not be this perfect lamb of atonement.
09:31 -  And God said that we should take of the blood and strike it on the two side posts of their homes and the lentil. The Jewish people actually made the first sign of the cross and the meaning of this
09:43 -  is lost even to this day because the birth step of the homes in which they lived were hollowed by the passing of the feet. The blood, we're told, was poured into this recess and the hyssop, this common green plant,
09:58 -  was dipped in down and lifted up in the lentil cuts and in the two side posts so the Jew actually made the sign of the cross with the blood of this blemishless lamb. And then we were told to eat it, roast totally with all of the finger parts thereof, not
10:15 -  like some of us today who pick at the lamb that shows us parts that please us, but shrink from consuming it entire. And that lamb is to be consumed as pilgrims with our soups job and our staff and our hands
10:30 -  girded for a great journey. You see the tremendous significance that God has written into this historical event, not just for Jewish people, but for believers throughout every generation and unto our own.
10:45 -  When I see the blood, God said, I will pass over you. And this needs to be kept as an ordinance, a memorial, throughout all the generations forever.
10:56 -  And to this day it's also kept throughout Jewish communities in the entire world, from Orthodox to Jews who have even acknowledged that they're atheists, some form of celebration in the home is maintained, even if it's nothing more than a simple dinner.
11:15 -  But tonight we're going to go through essentially an Orthodox Passover, it's going to be greatly telescoped, that you might get some glimpse of the service of the Lord Mayor at last, something like 12 or 1 or even 2 in the morning.
11:29 -  Let's continue reading here in the 15th verse. In the 19th verse, this injunction is repeated. I'm a young child of God that I've learned at least this much.
12:04 -  When God repeats himself twice, I take very special notice. There was an abomination to eat leavened bread in the course of this Passover celebration. And you know that leaven is a type of thing.
12:18 -  And in those days, in the making of bread, a portion of the batter would be left behind in some bank and damp, dark place in the home to fetch or to ferment, and then that would be included in the new batch of dough that the bread would be leavened and would rise.
12:39 -  When God called them out of Egypt to begin the pilgrimage into the promised land, they would take no leaven out of Egypt. They would eat no leavened bread.
12:52 -  And the foal that would eat it should be cut off from the house of Israel. Then Moses called for the elders of Israel and said unto them, Draw out and take you a lamb according to your families and kill the Passover.
13:04 -  And you shall take a bunch of hyssop and dip it in the blood that is in the basin, scratch the lintels of the two-side posts with the blood that is in the basin, and none of you shall go out of the door of his house until the morning.
13:14 -  For the Lord will pass through to smite the Egyptians, and when he sees the blood upon the lintel on the two-side post, the Lord will pass over the door, and it will not come here to destroy, but come into your houses to smite you, and you shall observe this thing
13:28 -  for an order to see what is beautiful things that are part of our heritage. Traditionally, a few specks of leaven have been left behind in some conspicuous place that the Father might have an inspection ceremony, and sure enough he signs on some rolling or
13:48 -  filling a few conspicuous crumbs, and he collects his tongue and shakes his head with tongue and cheek, and he takes a scissor and a wooden spoon, and he very carefully sweeps each of these crumbs into a wooden spoon, and then he has a predicament.
14:02 -  What you do now with this leaven that's in the spoon and the scissor which is contaminated, you can essentially throw it in the wastebasket or the garbage. It would be in the house, and there cannot be leaven in the house.
14:14 -  You can't open the door and give it a trot for fear that a gust of wind will blow back you in a single speck. So traditionally in Europe where there were ghettos of Jewish people, isolated communities,
14:25 -  a fire was lit, and the youngest son would be sent with the wooden spoon and the scissor and the few crumbs in that napkin to take it out and to deposit the last vestige of leaven in that fire.
14:38 -  Then was the house sick for the celebration of the great Passover. The exact function that the wife had after which the husband would take over and conduct the entire Passover was the lighting of the Sabbath candles.
14:58 -  You took to a Jewish mother lighting these candles as I've seen my mother do Friday evening after Friday evening for year after year, and I don't know what these gestures mean, and I don't think my mother knows, but she's seen her mother do it and her mother
15:12 -  has seen her mother do it, and they sort of go like this and then hold their heads in their hands and pray an addiction over the candles inviting the queen of the Sabbath into the home.
15:26 -  And then the wife sits and then the father takes over. And in the Orthodox home the Jewish father puts on a kippur, and I've got one here tonight. A white robe, and it's a symbol of the father's priestly role in the home.
15:48 -  You know it's interesting that the Passover is the one occasion in the Jewish calendar where the deepest aspect of Jewish religion is brought into the home, aside from the weekly Sabbath.
16:02 -  And think now on our, quote, Christian life, how much of that which is deeply spiritual is actually brought into our homes and made a family celebration. There are reasons why I believe that this cancel will ought to be observed by not just
16:20 -  Jews, but Gentiles who have become Jews through the Spirit once a year. The father has donned his piddle, his priestly robe, and then there's a hat that he puts on called a mitre.
16:34 -  I don't have one with me tonight, but if you've seen Jewish campuses and synagogues, they wear a white Japanese hat with a tassel, but I'm going to wear what we call a yarmulke, a simple head covering.
16:46 -  You'll notice that Orthodox Jews wear this in the synagogue and in their homes, and the deeply Orthodox will wear this all the day, even in the streets, because Jewish people believe that you shouldn't keep your head uncovered before God.
16:58 -  Isn't that a precious thing? Now everything is prepared, and the Passover celebration will begin by the drinking of the first cup of wine.
17:08 -  Ordinarily, I have a complete Passover kiss here, but I don't tonight because it was lost in the shuffle of moving. We're making do with some items that we've gathered.
17:16 -  But you picture the four significant cups of wine that are going to be had tonight. And the first is called the kittish, the cup of sanctification. The father lifts this cup, and so do all the members of the family, including the children.
17:31 -  And it's a Jewish tradition, no matter how poor a Jewish family, that on the Passover, that every person, the youngest to the oldest, must have four cups of wine. And I pray the prayer in Hebrew.
17:43 -  Blessed art thou, O King of the universe, who has given us the fruit of the vine. And the fifth is taken, and the Passover has officially begun. The father then locks the cup in the bowl, ceremonial cleansing.
18:03 -  And then an interesting thing is done. A sprig of parsley, which is on this Passover status plate, is taken, and dipped into a bowl of salt water.
18:15 -  And every person at that table is given a sprig of parsley dipped into salt water. And in Jewish tradition, the green parsley represents life, and it's life immersed in tears. Salt water represents tears as a symbolic remembrance of what Jewish life has been
18:34 -  throughout the ages and its ages. On this table tonight, we have three pieces of unleavened bread. I've got them in three napkins, each piece separated by another white napkin.
18:52 -  In a better, wealthier Jewish home, there's a matzah bag, which is handed down from generation to generation, very ornamental. But tonight we're using the simple napkins.
19:02 -  And at this time of the service, the father reaches in, and he takes not the topmost piece, not the bottom piece, but he withdraws the middle slice. If you've never seen matzah or unleavened bread, this is it.
19:18 -  Notice that it's broken and pierced. It's lined. It's the bread of life.
19:28 -  It's made of pure ingredients, simple flour and water. And the matzah that's used for Passover is observed by the rabbis from the time it's wheat in the field to the milling process right through to the baking,
19:39 -  that it does not touch at any process of the way any kind of leaven. It's utterly pure. And at this time, the father breaks this bread.
19:51 -  And one half is put back in, and the other half is concealed or buried. The first is wrapped in a napkin, the bread of life, broken for us, wrapped in a shroud, and buried here.
20:12 -  And that's to come out at the conclusion of the meal at a time when that is the desert, and it's called the Afikomen. If you ask Jewish people, why is this observed, they can't explain.
20:23 -  This is just something that's been handed down from generation to generation. You ask, why are there three pieces of unleavened bread? The traditional explanation is that one piece represents the Kohan, the priestly family,
20:38 -  another the Levites, the priestly tribe, and the others all Israel. But no one is exactly sure. They just know that this, too, is part of their tradition.
20:48 -  And it was at a Passover table like this, some 75 years ago, that Leopold Cohen, the orthodox rabbi whom God had led to the discovery of the Messiah, was providing over the Passover table at his own home.
21:04 -  The Jewish wife was grief-stricken, as is my own mother to this day, that he had received Jesus, and she was a beautiful and faithful Jewish wife who would not turn from her husband, but inside she was a broken woman
21:17 -  who could not understand how a man who was a son of rabbis through many generations could do this awful thing of taking to himself the Jesus That was the name and the property of the Gentiles who had brought so much persecution
21:32 -  and oppression upon the Jewish people through the centuries. And that poor man, I know his frustration because I have the same with my own mother and my own family to explain.
21:42 -  But it was while he took the middle piece and broke it that the Holy Spirit revealed to him that these three pieces represent the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. And the middle piece is the Son whose body was broken for us
21:58 -  and whose body was wrapped in a burial shroud and concealed in hidden to come out on the third day. Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
22:14 -  There's also an onion on the table. The Jewish call this the root of life, and it's a good reason because the onion brings tears. You know, if you hear Jewish music, you know the tremendous plaintive quality of that music.
22:30 -  So there is a heartbroken element to Jewish culture and Jewish music and Jewish writing and even Jewish humor. It's because we suffer for a great number of people without understanding even why.
22:43 -  But had we been obedient to the awful look passed over, we would have been spared much. There's also a roast egg on the table. It's not eaten, it's really there as a reminder of the time when the temple stood
22:58 -  and sacrifices were performed. And that's all. This is the one, what can I say, melancholy reminder of the temple and the glow of Israel.
23:09 -  It's also interesting that the egg is a symbol in Easter, and it's a symbol in many cultures of the prime of beginning and new life. And then I don't have it with me tonight, but the last element on the table is a shank bone of a lamb.
23:24 -  It's interesting that on the modern Passover table, when the meal comes, it does not contain lamb. Because since the temple has been destroyed and since the priesthood has been dispersed, the lamb cannot be properly sacrificed and made fit for the Passover table.
23:41 -  So chicken will be eaten or turkey will be eaten or some other meat dish. And the only reminder of that blemish with lamb is the shank bone which was kept on this plate. Now it's time for the second cup of wine.
23:58 -  And this cup is called the cup of wrath or the cup of judgment. And every person at the table tilts his cup by his plate and takes out by his finger ten drops of wine and drops it on his plate.
24:14 -  Can you think what each drop represents? Each of the plagues that God brought against Egypt in judgment. Sometimes this is called the cup of praise because they're praising God
24:27 -  for the wonder and the might of His salvation. At the conclusion of the second cup, the son, the wondrous son, asks the seer Kosher. That means the four questions.
24:45 -  And this is done and has been done throughout the ages. It's prescribed in the scriptures that when your sons ask, why is this Passover being observed, that an explanation should be given
25:00 -  that a reminder will go out to every generation of the wonder that God performed to bring us out of bondage. And I want to read the question which the son asked in Hebrew as he passed over the table.
25:13 -  And I'm going to read this in English. Wherefore is this night distinguished from all other nights? Any other night we may eat either leavened or unleavened bread,
25:22 -  but on this night only unleavened bread. All other nights we may eat any species of herbs, but this night only bitter herbs. All other nights we do not even get even once, but on this night twice.
25:33 -  All other nights we eat and drink either sitting or reclined, and on this night we all recline. Now you may have noticed the pillows on these chairs.
25:41 -  The pillows are a symbol of freedom that one can lounge in the eating of the meal and it's another reminder of having come out of slavery and of bondage. The references to the dipping, to the making of a sap refer to the compound paste
25:58 -  made of ground apples and nuts and raisins mixed with wine, which is called charotis, and it has the consistency of mortar. That's the second piece of this unleavened bread that was broken.
26:12 -  At the time of the meal a piece is broken and given to every settlement and they dip into the sap and each person eats this paste as a reminder of when the Jews labored to build the city's philisero.
26:26 -  There's also bitter herbs on the table and rabbis say by tradition There are three basic elements for the pastor of the table, the unleavened bread, the bitter herbs, and the shank bone of the lamb.
26:38 -  And the sap is taken of the bitter herbs, that's the second sap, that they might be reminded of the bitterness of bondage. Now it's interesting how the son is answered.
26:50 -  Because we were slaves unto God in Egypt and the eternal our God brought us forth thanks to the mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and it's the most holy blessing he had not brought us forth,
27:01 -  our ancestors from Egypt to we and our children and our children's children will still be in bondage to the pharaohs in Egypt. Therefore, even if we were all of us wise, all of us know of knowledge and of understanding,
27:12 -  all of us learned in the law that nevertheless would be incumbent upon us to speak of the departure from Egypt, and all of us who speak of the departure from Egypt are accounted praiseworthy.
27:24 -  Now by tradition four sons are spoken of in the Passover. There's a wise son, a wicked son, a sinful son, and a son who has not yet come to the age of understanding.
27:39 -  I think it's a shame that we can't take the time to assign an explanation for what these four sons represent, but I want to mention the wicked son.
27:49 -  What says the wicked son by the way I'm reading from the Haggadah? That means the narrative or the story. Every pass over the table will have copies of the Haggadah.
28:01 -  This is a very inexpensive version. Some of them will be very elaborate, they'll be bound in silver, and they'll be handed down also as family heirlooms, generation to generation.
28:11 -  What says the wicked son? The whole of the Haggadah has gone to, that's what takes until twelve one o'clock or two o'clock in the morning. What mean you by this service?
28:21 -  Why is he wicked? Because he doesn't say, what do we mean by this service? What mean you by this service? As if he has nothing to do with it. Therefore, as he considered by tradition, wicked.
28:33 -  By the word you, it is clear he does not include himself, and thus has withdrawn himself from the community. This is not a celebration to remind us of what our forefathers experienced,
28:44 -  though that we should see ourselves being brought forth by the hand of God out of bondage into the promised land. The next one is the story of the wicked son.
28:56 -  This is the story of the wicked son. This is the story of the wicked son. This is the story of the wicked son.
29:05 -  This is the story of the wicked son. The Maggadah has gone through the whole accounting of God's marvelous deliverance, and then the elements are pushed aside, and the meal is breathed forth.
29:19 -  And it's a special occasion, and the hours that are taken in the eating of it, and as I mentioned in the service the other night, that eating has become a gastronomic experience for modern people.
29:32 -  It's shoving something in our face and getting away from the table as quickly as we can. But in biblical times it was the breaking of bread. It was a time of fellowship, where something could be done at leisure.
29:44 -  The eating plot was only incidental. The sharing plot was tremendously significant. A time of real fellowship, of a real cordiality, and you do it at great leisure.
29:54 -  And so two hours might be taken for the eating of this meal. The Jewish mother comes in, looks at it, the dishes are prepared, and it really is a joyous occasion.
30:04 -  And now the meal has been eaten, and we can resume the service. It's time for the third cup of wine, and I want now to turn to the New Testament scriptures
30:14 -  that we might see in the accounts given in the Gospel of Luke in the 22nd chapter. How Jesus himself traditionally responded as a Jew in the Passover, which he was observing, which is a disciple.
30:33 -  Notice the 19th and 20th verses of the 22nd chapter, the Gospel of Luke, and the New Testament scriptures. Notice the 19th and 20th verses of the 22nd chapter,
30:49 -  the Gospel of Luke, and he took bread and gave thanks and broke it, and gave unto them, saying, This is my body, which is given for you, this do, in remembrance of me.
31:00 -  Which bread is it that Jesus now chose to break and to share? This is the time for the African common to come out of hiding, out of burial, and usually some kind of a game is made of it.
31:13 -  He finally receives a reward, comes out of hiding and out of the crowd, and now this is the bread that Jesus took and broke, and gave to his disciples and said,
31:29 -  This is my body, which is given for you, this do, in remembrance of me. Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood, which is shed for you.
31:43 -  And this is the time in the traditional Passover service for the drinking of the third cup. The first was the cup of benediction, the second was the cup of judgment,
31:54 -  and the third is the cup of redemption. And Jesus says, This cup is my blood, given for you. This is the New Testament, sealed in my blood, given for you,
32:08 -  the cup of redemption. Jewish people are drinking of that third cup and eating of this bread year after year without any cognizance
32:17 -  that it represents the Messiah who has already come. This turns to 1 Corinthians, the 11th chapter. Now, Jewish Brother Paul, beautifully commenting,
32:47 -  So I have received of the Lord, after many of these words are for all the times that we've taken communion, that which also I delivered unto you, that the Lord Jesus,
32:55 -  the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat. This is my body, which is broken for you.
33:04 -  This do in remembrance of me. After the same manner also he took the cup, when he had stopped, after the completion of the meal, the fourth cup of redemption,
33:14 -  saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me. Then he comes to a fourth cup,
33:26 -  and it's probably the most known cup taken in the order of the service. It's called the cup of Elijah. And if we had a properly equipped table,
33:35 -  you would have seen a whole setting set aside and unused with a cup standing by it, and that seat was left for the prophet Elijah, the forerunner of the Messiah.
33:46 -  And in this moment in the seder, the son is sent to open the front door and everybody rises, taking the first cup in their hand, called Elijah's cup,
33:55 -  and they look to the open door for the prophet Elijah to come in. And they've done this year after year after year, generation after generation, century after century, and no one comes.
34:08 -  And then the father will say something like, Perhaps next year. There's always a moment of extreme disappointment, it's a poignant moment, the Jewish hope of the Messiah,
34:21 -  that perhaps this Pesach, this Passover, when the door is opened, in will come the prophet Elijah, or perhaps even the Messiah himself, and take the seat that's been left for him throughout all these years
34:34 -  and complete the redemption that was begun those thousands of years before in that first Pesach. But alas, and alas, again as before, no one comes,
34:45 -  the door is closed, the cup is drunk, and then there's a cup of praise, some psalms are sung, and the ceremony is concluded.
35:15 -  Don't take your words about me, and the black, and the yet to be alone. Each time I walk through this, for I walk through that tunnel, and I walk the cloud or the rain, neither can you walk with me,
35:28 -  and with you is the bitter hurt of this hour that you put into the fall. Rejoice in the now angel, to bear the green of suffering that I hold. I pray in the dream, to brandish my body,
35:42 -  that life is life that would ask for life, and hope should be placed upon the cup, and the door should die, that soon I could place in safety in the kingdom,
35:55 -  and I promise you, in the house of Jesus Christ, I'll deserve my home and serve you. Praise God, hallelujah, praise God, praise God.
36:09 -  Aren't these the two precious symbols that we celebrate? And I think God, by His Spirit, wants to remind us tonight, there's no bread of life that isn't subjected to the crushing experience
36:25 -  that the grain of wheat has to die, that it might bear fruit. The two great symbols, the crushed grape and the broken wheat, are bound to give life and redemption unto the multitude.
36:43 -  And we're to take these as symbols and as continuing reminders that this is our Lord's Supper. And I think He would have of us that we should make of our bodies something broken,
36:54 -  that we should be willing also to be crushed and birthed, that that life which has been invested in us might go forth unto the world. What a fitting way to ask the question,
37:03 -  how is it that my Jewish people, who have thought so long for the Messiah and have gone through the very same way that I've described tonight, could not see in these beautiful symbols which God has written into their deepest experience
37:17 -  in their own homes, the Messiah Jesus Christ. I think that the Church of God will have to give answer for the failure of the Jewish people to recognize in the name of Jesus the Messiah of whom all these things speak.
37:33 -  As that wife of that rabbi was astounded at the act of her husband and my own malice, so are countless millions of Jews completely alienated from the name of Jesus, never occurring to them that 1900 years ago one came
37:48 -  who is the perfect fulfillment of all that these suggest. God has given us the joyous responsibility and obligation to bring understanding and light into Jewish life,
38:02 -  that we might explain to them what these very things mean which they really observe, that they might feel the joy of the discovery that that Jewish wife experienced 75 years ago and which I'm confident my mother is going to experience before she passes from this life.
38:22 -  I think it would be a wonderful thing for us, once a year, we who are believers, Jew and Gentile alike, to conduct an annual spring cleaning. You know that Paul said that a little leaven leavens the whole lump.
38:35 -  God Christ warned us that if we so much as touch the slightest leaven, we should be cut off from the family of Israel. We ought to start a cleansing and start from the attic of our minds
38:49 -  to the murk and cranny, the vestibules, the throes, the dark and secret places of our lives and going to the basements even, and cleanse, a yearly stock-taking of the dross and the leaven that's accumulated in our lives and cleansed it.
39:04 -  We ought to remind ourselves every year by the taking of this bread and the making of a stock dipped into the bitter herbs of the bondage from which God has delivered us. I tell you people, and as you know, there's no bondage more cruel than that lash which is silent.
39:22 -  And there's no tyrant more despicable than that tyrant Satan. And there are countless millions, Jews and Gentile alike throughout the world, who are groaning and building cities for him who do not know the redemption that's available to them in Jesus Christ.
39:38 -  And we will be over experience that has been brought out of Egypt, or yearly, to celebrate this glorious Passover to remind ourselves of the joy and the treasure, the prize of our rich salvation. So a lot of us were brought out, but as the scripture says,
39:56 -  he brought us out that he might bring us in, and then we are still stumbling in the wilderness and have not come into the fullness of the promised land. Some of us, instead of a vibrant living Christ in our lives,
40:10 -  have like the Jews people on their Passover table a pot, prophetic shing-stone of the Lamb. I think God will have us to take spiritual inventory tonight and use the things that he has described to us by his Spirit to examine the condition of our own lives
40:29 -  that we might see the Lamb of God anew and understand the meaning of his sacrifice for our redemption. He brought us out that he might bring us in. My own heart and understanding tells me that the plagues are coming again.
40:59 -  The mind of man has revived many things, and I have tried to explain to me the way that there are many ways that seem right unto a man, but the only way are the ways of death.
41:38 -  For he will never cease to invent a new thing, may him to attract me with some glamorous idea that he will unfold, and his inventiveness will never know when,
41:50 -  in offering first this way and then that way, and he will appeal to the mind, and he will appeal to the senses,
41:59 -  and there will seem pleasant ways and good ways, and there will be easy ways, but you will have to know,
42:06 -  and remember that there is no other way, unless that way is blood sprinkled, for if thou didst avoid the way of blood,
42:15 -  then thou hast no way. If thou didst avoid the way of blood, thou hast no draw on every planter.
42:21 -  If thou dost not know the way of blood, then thou dost have no training for thy things, but there is nothing to face except the fiery ordeal of passion.
42:31 -  Do not let God's judgment be blinded by the abandonment and the wisdom of man, but know that God thy Lord hath tested before thee an open door, and hath sprinkled with blood.
42:44 -  Praise God, praise God, praise God. I'd like to have someone come to the piano, and we can turn our phone books to 98 at the cross.
43:02 -  Every one of us tonight are conscious of the plagues that are coming upon our world, plagues of racial holocaust, of campuses set afire,
43:15 -  civilizations broken, our culture, our standards, our values are disintegrating. The oppressions are coming one after another.
43:26 -  Mankind is going to be offered a choice of one of two cups, the cup of God's wrath is the bitter cup, or the cup of God's redemption.
43:38 -  Pray, God, that God make us such messengers of his salvation that this cup of redemption will be readily received by a dying mankind. I'm going to ask you to pray this at the cross.
43:51 -  Let's be lovingly tonight, mindful of the salvation that God has given our lives. And I'm going to ask anybody who's in this audience tonight, God, Gentile, the right, who wants to partake of their first Lord's Supper,
44:08 -  to come to this table, to someone who wants to experience the redemption of God, to come to this table.
44:16 -  What could be more glorious and free for the kingdom of God than to receive from the man for himself, from his own body and his own blood, the symbol of salvation,
44:28 -  that your feet purged, cleansed, made new, child of God, saved out of the eagerness of your life,
44:36 -  out of the bondage of the cruel task matter, to be free, sexually. Shall we sing at the cross?
45:13 -  At the cross, at the cross, where our hearts go, may the wind not touch your soul, may the wind not touch your soul,
45:31 -  may the wind not touch your soul. Also, can I have your seat now? No fancy invitations,
45:44 -  no playing upon emotion or sentimentality, simple invitations to receive salvation from its author, our Lord, our Messiah Jesus.
45:54 -  Let's send our hands in a spirit of worship, calling upon the name of the Lord, pulling self-pain,
46:01 -  ask God to free anyone in this room, still laboring to build an invisible city, groaning, precious Holy Spirit of the Living God,
46:18 -  precious God who came to the cross, brought us to the flame of God, poured out His blood,
46:28 -  that we might be set free. Lord, break the meaning of that great sacrifice upon the heart and mind and spirit
46:37 -  of all of whom you've assembled here this night, drawing you by thy Spirit now. Any person here tonight who's not received
46:47 -  this costly sacrifice, that they might be brought out of Egypt, out of bondage, and into a land of promise
46:56 -  and a land of freedom. Rue them, precious God, and draw them. Bless us, Lord, and strike in our hearts
47:04 -  the big meaning of this Passover table. Touch our hearts for thy people Israel. Help us, O God, to be thy instruments,
47:14 -  to bring light and understanding that the veil might be removed from Jewish eyes, that this Passover, as the bread is broken,
47:25 -  as the stock is dipped, as the wine is drunk. But the meaning of all of these
47:34 -  deeply symbolic acts will be broken upon the understanding of countless numbers of precious Jewish families.
47:43 -  O God, our hearts are especially lifted up. This is a season of redemption. We believe and praise thee for the great work
47:55 -  which we are going to see in these days, servicing a final course of at the cross. Roses open, those who want to come
48:05 -  to receive the salvation of God, those whom God has touched by his Spirit, conscious of the loving of their lives,
48:14 -  who want to have by the blood of Christ that loving wash away, those who've been stumbling in the wilderness
48:22 -  and want by an act of faith the redemption which God has begun. The altar is open tonight
48:29 -  to receive at the hand of the Master all that is made available to us by the sacrifice of himself.
48:35 -  Shall we sing this verse? Chorus. And the cross, that the cross,
48:42 -  where the cross is fallen, and the cross, that the cross is fallen, it will remain like this
48:56 -  on the street like that where the cross is fallen.