The Meaning of Morality

00:00 -  So you have been warned. I love the word. I can't say that I know what it means. And I'm surprised in the few older Bible commentators who use the word,
00:20 -  like P.T. Forsythe, whom I'm commending to all the Church, who died in 1928 and whose principal writings were somewhere from 1904, 1909, 1918. Giant. I'm amazed at how few have ever heard of him.
00:40 -  But he uses the word, moral, several times on every page. Are you aware tonight that we inhabit a moral universe? What does that mean? There's a divine logic in it.
00:58 -  For example, whatsoever a man sows, that too shall he reap. That's a moral reckoning. That's a divine statement. If it were not for the moral content or nature of the world,
01:18 -  I wouldn't even know how to conceive it. It would be a jungle. And in fact, it's becoming a jungle in the exact proportion to the word's loss of circulation and esteem,
01:32 -  not only in the world, but even in the Church. So I have a prophetic burden to inculcate, sow the word into the earth, and have the saliva begin to run in the mouths of saints as they sound the word
01:51 -  and become morally conscious. I'm not talking about length of skirts or hairdo. That's trivia. I'm talking about, how can you define it?
02:04 -  It's so substantial a word. Well, I'm going to begin with you the way it began with me in Albania, where I was invited to speak to a group of high school teachers
02:22 -  who were all patent atheists because there had been no religion in Albania for the whole length of its communist regime, something like 70 or more years. Religion was forbidden in any form.
02:34 -  So a whole generation grew up without any kind of religious understanding, totally atheistic, and now a German mission group had funded a school and employed these local teachers and asked me to address them.
02:53 -  And the Lord gave me one word, moral. To persuade them, as I hope to persuade you, that teaching is a moral vocation. It's more than the dissemination of information or the importation of skills.
03:12 -  If it's not moral, it has lost its whole character. Even in the secular world, teaching is moral. So let me share some of the statements.
03:26 -  Someone took the pains to transcribe that first statement. That's what I have in front of me. So there are little gaps here and there,
03:34 -  but I can reconstruct a bit of what was said on that first occasion to stun these atheistic, secular teachers that their vocation is moral because it touches the life of students.
03:52 -  It's a moral issue. It touches those things which have to do with moral questions, questions of meaning, questions of value.
04:02 -  When we lose the sense of meaning or don't seek for it or don't realize that there is an issue of value in all the things that we are about, we're already on the way to deadening our moral sensitivity
04:19 -  and eliminating that one distinctive that makes man man. If you remove the moral quotient from a human being, they are no longer human.
04:30 -  They become animals. And even in this talk, I referred to Nazi Germany, which had the most eminent culture in the world,
04:40 -  in philosophy, in poetry, in science, in ethics, but it had not a moral quotient. And so it can come to a place where it can burn books.
04:52 -  And when you burn books, you're only within the stone's throw of burning men. I don't know about you, but I wince at the sight of graffiti. What have I to do with it?
05:04 -  It's not my building, it's not my tram car, but there's something about graffiti, I saw it today in taking a walk, on lampposts and electric boxes, some sprayed junk that makes me ache
05:21 -  because it defaces property. It's a sign of contempt. It's a lack of respect for value.
05:30 -  It's a statement of presumption that any snot-nose with a spray can can do his thing at his will, doesn't matter who's property or how obscene. I've never made a study of it, but it deserves examination
05:44 -  because I seem to see a pattern, whether I see graffiti in Germany, and it's there everywhere, or anywhere else in the world, New York.
05:55 -  Where was it in Brazil? Really, as you know, the buildings, the top of the buildings, is as if someone has leaned over from the roof upside down
06:05 -  to squirt the graffiti over the whole rib of buildings. It seems to have a distinctive character, as if they had all been to the same school.
06:18 -  Well, the fact of the matter is it all issues from the same source, hell itself. It's a contempt for property, and what frightens me is
06:29 -  it doesn't take much to go from a contempt for violating property to violating man. It's an absence of a sense of value of a world made by God
06:42 -  that is not to be violated, trespassed against. It's sacrilegious, even to despoil the secular world. And that's the statement of the lack of a moral quotient
06:58 -  that characterizes our world and its generation. So we need to become conscious of the word moral and seek to define it.
07:12 -  And you know that I've turned to the best dictionaries available and what do you call it? The book of synonyms, thesaurus.
07:21 -  And sometimes you get a better sense of a word by its antonyms than by its synonyms. And you look at what the opposite means.
07:33 -  You're more likely to get a sense of the word that you're trying to define. So what is immoral? Here's a list of words that came as a result of my search.
07:47 -  Lust, harm, to harass, abuse, molest, defile, ruin, afflict, violate, despoil. Graffiti is despoiling. Decadence, moral abandonment, dissolute, profligate, dissipation,
08:07 -  indecency, defilement, unclean, vulgar, raunchy, criminal, base, vile, promiscuous, perverse, degenerate, wanton, loose, depraved, unfruitful, fallow, whoorish, obscene, deviant, sadistic, bestial, incestuous, shocking,
08:29 -  no morals elapsed, debased, amoral, unscrupulous, indecent, lewd. Well, Art, you might just as well have been describing the contemporary world, not only at its worst, but as it's supposed best.
08:46 -  I'm a strange duck who subscribes to the New York Times daily, and there's not an issue in which I have not clipped out articles, theater reviews, film reviews, the financial section, and the latest scandal of the CEOs who knew
09:05 -  that their corporations were on their way out and inflated the statistics so as to disguise it, and went out taking with them untold millions in retirement benefits and other kinds of things,
09:18 -  and the kind of unspoken or unobserved connivance with the financial department and their accountants and so on. There's not a day in the New York Times that does not record
09:32 -  the most grievous financial looting of treasuries, and I just wonder where these millions and millions come from, because even when these corporations are found out,
09:45 -  about 12 of the most prestigious stock market firms of the New York Stock Exchange were found and caught in acts of corruption, because there's a brilliant attorney in New York City who prosecuted them,
10:02 -  Jewish guy, bless his soul, and they made a settlement. They paid millions of dollars in penalties, which didn't begin in any way to touch the billions that they had already looted,
10:16 -  but with the agreement that they would not acknowledge either for or against that they had committed a wrong. Isn't that remarkable?
10:25 -  They're willing to pay the financial penalty, but not make the acknowledgement. The head of the New York Stock Exchange
10:35 -  sent a letter to these corporation presidents, CEOs, and said, your nonchalance and your indifference to being found out is shocking. There's not even any sense of remorse that you even acknowledge guilt,
10:52 -  and when you read on, the best that they're willing to acknowledge is they made an error or it was a mistake, but never is it ever a sin or a moral lapse
11:05 -  or anything of a kind that even makes men to blush. We are a generation that has forgotten how to blush, and shame is not only in style,
11:16 -  but the men go out of the way to be yet more shameful. There's something about the nature of our contemporary society and TV and amusement, novelty,
11:26 -  that is a compulsive force, there's an energy, a dynamic that compels every program to be more bizarre, more shocking, more sensational, more risqué than the last.
11:39 -  So already there are ballet troupes who are performing naked, and there are acts of fornication and bestiality and copulation with dogs on the platform, on stages.
11:55 -  You need to know this, Saints. The world is spiraling downward and out for a lack of the sense of what is moral.
12:05 -  Mankind is being debased. So I'm telling these atheistic teachers, you need to recognize that your vocation
12:16 -  is not the mere dissemination of information or the impartation of skills. I'm a former teacher myself.
12:23 -  That's why I became a teacher, even as an atheist, because I was concerned with moral and ethical questions that I wanted opportunity to explore with students
12:35 -  and to stir a sensitivity and a consciousness in this area. And so far that philosophy was not available at the high school level.
12:45 -  I took history and used history as a springboard for the examination of these questions that are ultimate. I did such a good job that it drove me out of atheism
12:58 -  and into the arms of the Lord, because I raised questions that I was myself unable to answer. While I was myself groaning through a moral predicament
13:08 -  of a marriage with a German woman, formerly a member of the Nazi youth, who was a schizophrenic piece of debris left over from World War II.
13:21 -  And in the frenzy of her psychotic condition, she would lash out at the one place where I was vulnerable, hard as nails.
13:29 -  But the one place where I had chinks in my armor was the issue of Jewishness. And there she found it and pressed the button
13:37 -  through anti-Semitic tirades. So under my own roof, I had the enactment in miniscule of the very tragedy which I just concluded through World War II.
13:49 -  You know what I realized? I had not the magnanimity or grace to answer patiently, but I responded in kind,
13:59 -  as viciously as it was dished out, as viciously I returned it, so-called humanist. You know what the problem of my Jewish people is?
14:11 -  It's not that they're Christ-rejecting and God-rejecting. The thing that pains me is that they're not serious about life. If they were only serious about life,
14:24 -  and serious therefore about value and meaning, they would ultimately be brought to the question of God. But because they're blasé, indifferent,
14:34 -  caught up only in pleasure and sport and amusement and novelty and increase in wealth, they don't grapple with moral questions
14:45 -  about the issue of reality itself. If they did, God would then have opportunity to press in and bring them to the ultimate consideration,
14:53 -  which is God himself. This is what I'm telling these teachers. If you're going to be serious about stirring moral consideration
15:01 -  in your students, you know what you're going to find? You can't pursue this without turning to God. To press moral questions or to seek for them in your subject matter
15:15 -  shows that you'll come to the end of your own human ability. You're on God's ground, and you'll find yourself appealing to Him for grace,
15:24 -  as I'm appealing tonight for grace to communicate this subject. So what is moral content in teaching? And what makes a nation moral?
15:42 -  What is the issue of character? How is it formed? How do we determine what is good, true, righteous?
15:52 -  What is to be desired? What are the higher values? What is the purpose of life?
15:59 -  Teaching is a moral profession, and not just, as I've said, dissemination of information or the communication of knowledge.
16:09 -  This is what makes teaching education, from the Latin word educare, means to draw out, not just impart in.
16:18 -  So the ideal picture of teaching are two individuals in interaction, raising questions, being provoked
16:28 -  to come deeper and deeper in its consideration. And it requires everything. I've done hard work in my day.
16:38 -  High school dropout, merchant seamen, we've installed the sprinkler fitting systems with six-inch pipes, which the threads had to be cut by hand.
16:48 -  And I've broken up concrete with jackhammers, but nothing ever began to touch the exhaustion of being a teacher. If your teaching is more than just disseminating information
17:01 -  and you're wanting to touch the deeps of your students and raise questions that will affect their humanity, it's utterly exhausting.
17:12 -  I used to come home from school in the afternoon with this plop on my bed, exhausted in mind, body, soul, before I became a believer,
17:21 -  just as an atheist raising questions of this kind. What kind? Well, is the white man justified
17:29 -  in appropriating grounds owned by indigenous peoples who are simplistic in their lifestyle and are food gatherers or hunters?
17:40 -  Can white men come in their superior technology and are making much greater use of that land than those who populate it in a simple elementary lifestyle?
17:51 -  Does that give them the right to the appropriation? See, to raise the question of what is right is to raise the question of what is moral,
18:02 -  not what is expedient or what has happened, but to go back and examine should it, is it an alternative?
18:10 -  Is it honoring the people who are there who are indigenous? These questions are rarely ever raised or considered, but they need to be.
18:21 -  It draws everything out of the teacher and it stirs something in the students that will affect their whole future, their maturity.
18:31 -  And history is not history unless we raise these questions. The student has got to make choices, decisions, weigh something. What would you do?
18:40 -  That's the kind of teacher I was. What would you do if you were there? Would you have joined in this activity?
18:47 -  Would you have participated in the American Revolution? Is revolution justified by excess taxes? Or was that a pretense for ambition
18:59 -  for greater profit and appropriation if the British Empire did not get its cut? Will men raise illusory charges,
19:12 -  no representation without taxation, and justify revolution? The revolution by nature is contrary to God.
19:20 -  It's rebellion against existing authority. Well, what happens if that authority is unjust? Are you at liberty to unseat it by acts of violence?
19:30 -  Or do you bring the thing before God who is righteous and trust for him to unseat the despot? These are questions, dear Saints,
19:40 -  that we of all people need first to be asking. If the Church has lost its moral dimension, if the Church is unthinking,
19:50 -  if the Church is not examined, what should we hope for in society? In fact, the malfeasance of society, its corruption,
19:57 -  in business, in theater, in art, and so on and so forth, may only be the visible expression of what is wrong in Denmark,
20:07 -  the collapse, the failure of the Church. The same thing may be true in a moral universe where our kids exhibit the truth of our condition.
20:16 -  We ourselves can't see it. I remember parents complaining to me about the vulgarity and the obscenity of their children,
20:23 -  and the Lord shared with me that the parents themselves were living facetiously. They would never think ever to speak in obscene ways,
20:38 -  but their life before God was that. And in order for them to recognize it, the Lord allows their moral failure
20:46 -  to be expressed through their children's conduct. Like another case, a woman, a German woman, a very moral, privately whispered to me,
20:56 -  Archie said, I'm so ashamed of myself. I'm guilty of masturbation. I've got a handsome husband,
21:03 -  and I can't understand why it is that I'm caught up with a lust of this kind. And so the answer was, that's only a symptom.
21:15 -  The real issue is your domination of your sons, that you would never recognize. You're smothering them,
21:24 -  and the only way God could get your attention is by allowing an expression in your conduct that violates your own moral sensibility.
21:33 -  But the issue is not sex. The issue is oppressive domination of your children to the point where you are usurping God's role towards them.
21:43 -  Is that remarkable? Or the lady who came to me in London, I've had a headache for 30 years that has never ceased.
21:50 -  What happened 30 years ago? My father died prematurely. Prematurely, I said?
21:57 -  Where was God? Where's his sovereignty? You have been in a state of rebellion against God
22:06 -  and complaining and taking issue with him that he was mistaken and wrong in allowing your father to die.
22:14 -  And your headache is a symptom of your rebellion when you'll surrender and condescend that he does all things well
22:24 -  and that everything issues from the throne and his sovereignty, your headache will go. So we need to read our symptoms
22:31 -  and root out what is the moral issue and problem which we're not recognizing and for which reason the Lord sometimes has to trouble us
22:42 -  in our body, our mind, our consciences until we find out from him what the issue in fact is. So this is exhausting.
22:53 -  It takes a moral energy to pursue moral questions and to express them and to stir students to consider them. And how can we seek to raise moral consciousness in our students
23:08 -  if we ourselves are not moral, are not morally conscious even about our own life, our own condition?
23:15 -  Because in the last analysis, the issue of what is moral is the issue of God. This is a moral universe because God himself is moral.
23:28 -  And if you pursue the questions of what is moral, you'll soon enough be brought to the question of God. And your failure to have considered the question of God
23:38 -  is the greatest indication of your moral lapse. How can you live in this world and this life and see the evidence of God and his creation round about you
23:50 -  and yet not have considered him and taken him seriously into your consideration as a first consideration?
23:58 -  The fact that you have ignored the question or have allowed yourself to be satisfied with a mere Sunday palliative,
24:06 -  a little shallow religious thing is an indication of your own moral failure. The failure to consider God is the most serious moral lapse.
24:20 -  And nowhere is it more an offense than those who are only superficial in their Christianity. That is a double offense
24:30 -  because we employ the language of God and we put the dollar in the collection plate and go through the superficial overt Sunday exercise,
24:39 -  but what it really is is a flight and an escape from true relationship and true requirement, and we like to have it so.
24:52 -  There's no such thing as moral neutrality. The thing that is moral requires choice, decision, commitment, but we're not living as if God is Lord.
25:12 -  We don't consider him, we don't seek him, we don't ask his will, we are living independently, and yet we're affecting and touching the lives of children,
25:20 -  not just when they are with us, but the whole balance of their lives. What they receive from us as teachers affects all their future,
25:27 -  and you think you're wise enough to do that without consulting God? To be presumptuous to think that you could devise a curriculum or a class session without considering God
25:41 -  is itself a presumption that lacks moral understanding. For you're talking about lives, you're affecting their future. Who is sufficient for these things?
25:53 -  A wrong word, a wrong gesture, something that is allowed to fall without consideration affects them, and they're psyches and they go on.
26:02 -  My own son has divorced a very precious daughter-in-law, and I cannot persuade him of his error. He thinks God is on his side.
26:13 -  How can he be asked to live in a condition that is so vexing where his wife is continually in a state of complaint and irritation? But I said to him, you have created that condition in her,
26:27 -  your slipshod moral life, your flirtations. She's had to feel the phone calls that have come from outraged husbands of wanting to get you off from their wives.
26:39 -  And when she asks you what you're up to, that I'm getting phone calls like this, you turn around and discuss and wave it away
26:47 -  as if it's a complaint that need not be considered. You've allowed your wife to come to a pitch of frustration and resentment that she necessarily has become vexed.
27:02 -  And because you don't like the vexed atmosphere, you've pulled out and you have found something much more accommodating. And now you're asking me for something,
27:13 -  some funds that you can deposit in your account and make gifts to your three boys as if it comes from you? I said, I'm so surprised how solicitous you are now about your sons.
27:31 -  Where was your regard for them when you determined on a process of divorce and a struggle in the courts over their custody and the angry exchanges that took place before that
27:46 -  in which you used obscene and vile language in their hearing? Where was your sensitivity then about your children? Where was this disposition that you've seen now
27:59 -  to express this solicitude for your sons? Where was it when you allowed them to be made merchandise and their psyches damaged by the divorce proceeding
28:09 -  and the harangues that preceded it? Your selfish lust and its gratification has eclipsed any consideration for your own children
28:19 -  and they'll take with them this psychic damage into their adult lives that almost will cast them also on a collision course for disaster in marriage. Where was your moral consideration?
28:32 -  It takes God to be moral. So I wrote a little article called Deep Calling unto Deep, the unheard cry for reality itself,
28:50 -  because what is reality in the last analysis? I wrote a little article called Deep Calling unto Deep, the unheard cry for reality itself,
28:58 -  because what is reality in the last analysis? It's things as God himself sees them. The moral God and not as we desire and shape things to our accommodation.
29:15 -  And you know what I noticed that often in giving messages people are nodding as if they are in agreement and I naively believe that they were receiving the word.
29:26 -  Their nodding was affirmation. Until one day, I don't know if the Lord just made me to be aware, that they're not receiving the word as it is being issued,
29:36 -  but they're filtering it through a kind of a filter, a prism of subjectivity and receiving that portion of what is spoken
29:46 -  in a way that fits with their established lifestyle and their perspective and their whole framework of understanding. They're not taking the word as the word,
29:58 -  but siphoning out anything of it that would in any way jar their established mode of being and receiving or interpreting other aspects of the spoken word
30:11 -  as it fits in with their already established mentalities. Do you ever realize that in yourself? It's a remarkable phenomenon
30:21 -  and that's why there's little growth. What is being discarded and rejected is that aspect of the word given by God
30:31 -  to reach into the deeps of the church and believers. And so it's being forfeited by this process of sifting that I believe is entirely unconscious.
30:42 -  We are moral cowards. We're nodding and amening as if in total agreement with the preached word.
30:50 -  But we're cowards who forfeit the truth, which can be received only as the whole truth and bring a hardening into the very area
30:58 -  which God by His Spirit would have brought the very breaking or release that we need. So be conscious of this,
31:06 -  that you're not nodding in agreement but at the same time filtering the word and just taking that portion acceptable to your status quo
31:16 -  but not receiving the whole word as it is given, which might threaten the way in which your interests have been established. So the word of God is given to shake,
31:29 -  given to examine, given to probe, and we need to receive it as it is spoken, as coming from God.
31:37 -  But one of our devices is not to see it as God's word but as man's. So if it's only man's word, it does not make the requirement of us
31:48 -  if we believe that it was God's. So here is another way in which something moral is being performed
31:58 -  by which we lose the value that God intends. So our lives continue fractured, carnal, shallow, and unhappy. We're not receiving the very provision
32:16 -  to affect the changes that are needed. And our overweight and even obese bodies, I wrote here, give testimony of a consistent overindulgence
32:28 -  for which we are no longer even embarrassed. That's a much more effective word in America than it is in Australia. If you go to an American airport,
32:38 -  you're struck by the oversized saints, by the oversized people. Children, one-third of America,
32:46 -  is not just overweight but obscenely overweight. It's a statement of remarkable indulgence and lack of discipline and it's to be found in the church as well.
32:58 -  And sometimes, and often, it's a compensation for frustration, unhappiness. So instead of receiving correction
33:06 -  and a disciplined life in the moral way, we snuff it out and compensate in that way with food. And so our bodies itself are a testimony
33:17 -  of an undisciplined and indulgent lifestyle and condition. And when our condition is too long deferred, we've not received correction.
33:30 -  And God finally has got to make up a long, too long deferring of truth that it comes almost as an earthquake.
33:41 -  It's a shaking that is really, in some cases, tragic. I believe that's my son's condition. He has so long played a game of deception
33:56 -  and mimicking the faith that finally, I don't think anything less than complete collapse, this marriage, its failure, and whatever he will enter into
34:07 -  will bring him down and into the place of reality with God. You cannot defer moral reality too long without having to pay a price of remarkable adjustment.
34:20 -  And if it will not be faced and obtained in this life, I can't think of a greater tragedy than carrying it into the life to come,
34:28 -  where there's no prospect for remedy or alteration. And that's where the gnashing of teeth and the anguish of soul is described in Scripture.
34:39 -  When, as Basil Eeschling says, in the day of eternity, we learn then that there's a radical reversal of all values
34:48 -  too late to alter anything. So may we be jealous for reality, truth, righteousness, the things that are moral in this life,
34:59 -  and welcome the adjustments that God desires to give, especially in the Church, not only through the preached word, but through the correction, the love, the speaking the truth in love,
35:11 -  the reproof that we would receive from brothers and sisters if we were in a position to receive and desire that kind of correction. Otherwise, we make a game of it.
35:26 -  And even the language of dying to self, which somehow had always chafed me in the earlier years when that language was popular, now you don't even hear it anymore.
35:35 -  No one even talks about it. No one even desires it. But one of my great lights, Karl Barth says that the so-called dying to self is only a semblance.
35:51 -  It's just play. It's not understanding it all, even the seriousness of dying. So if we take the most sacred things, the cross,
36:00 -  the power that God employs, the meaning of baptism, the dying with him, burial, resurrection, newness of life, and make that light a verbal kind of a game,
36:17 -  it's the final contradiction. And therefore we continue, as he says, to erect around ourselves building through our foolish,
36:30 -  light and frivolous, cruel and unclean living in thinking and doing. That may affect the way in which we hear the issue
36:41 -  that was expressed this morning about Israel's apocalyptic future. We have no stomach to consider judgment,
36:49 -  because judgment in the last analysis is God's moral remedy for sin. And if we ourselves are foolish,
37:01 -  if we ourselves are fleeing from the moral considerations in our own life, we will not have a disposition to consider it for Israel.
37:10 -  I'm becoming aware in all of the contention and my perspective with even my Jewish-believing kinsmen in Israel that the issue in the last analysis is not Israel,
37:22 -  the issue is the cross. Making peace with the cross and the recognition that it is at the heart of God's moral universe
37:33 -  and recognizing the righteousness of it and the necessity for it. And so he raises the question, called Bart,
37:41 -  who does not need to walk this way again and again? It's not a once and for all, but a continuous central orbit, a fact.
37:52 -  There's no moral consideration that omits the cross. The cross is at the center of every moral issue. Who will walk this way again and again?
38:04 -  Who can be said to have already passed the cross and to be standing on the other side in the resurrection? Who does not take offense here?
38:12 -  Who does not shake his head? Who dares leave it all to God? Where you are and have nothing anymore,
38:19 -  there God will glorify himself through you. The resurrection and life are waiting. So we spoke this morning about the judgment that comes to Israel
38:31 -  and the great redemption that follows God's severity where Israel sings aloud at the height of Zion and God's promises they shall be radiant over the goodness of the Lord.
38:45 -  I don't know how to say this, and I tried to say it in New Zealand at a talk given at a prison. There's something about righteousness that is delicious, that is delightful.
38:58 -  When you come to a place in God where everything has been put before him and you receive the blood because you have not withheld your own acknowledgement of the truth of condition and need
39:13 -  and walk in the righteousness of God in a consistent way, there's a wonderful shalom. There's an inward peace.
39:21 -  You can almost taste it. It's a condition that God intended as normative for all his saints and few there be that have ever tasted it
39:33 -  and that can walk in that way consistently. It's the human being coming to a moral place in God that is righteous. As the nation will one day say,
39:48 -  God is our righteousness and they will be singing a new song. They will be rejoicing in Zion because it's a condition of delight that God intends where the mind and the body is freed
40:02 -  from the harassments and the play and the consequence of shabby living that is unrighteous and shadowy and taking its liberty and cutting its corners. To be in a place in God that is morally right
40:19 -  is something devoutly to be desired. And I can't say that I'm enjoying such a condition consistently, but there have been moments where I have tasted it and I'm spoiled.
40:33 -  So I want you to know and believe that we are, most of us living beneath that condition because of a lack of moral consciousness,
40:44 -  because of a lack of moral seriousness, because we have not examined the issues of our own life, examined the issues of our own history,
40:55 -  the history of our own nation. So even at the airport in New Zealand, I don't know how it came up, the brothers who were with me at that prison,
41:04 -  listening to the testimony of these Maori prisoners, one man who was almost inaudible, his father, his drunken father, required him to punch his mother senseless.
41:18 -  And when he shrank from it and refused, his father took a kitchen knife and threatened his life unless he complied. Can you imagine the scarring of that soul?
41:29 -  He said, my hands were filled with the blood of my mother's face. And he attempted suicide, couldn't live with the moral trespass and put a belt around and leaped off of a platform in the barn
41:44 -  and thought he was dead. He wakened to find his mother had come in time to cut him loose. And so he was put in prison for other offenses that followed.
41:54 -  And in prison he found the Lord. And in prison he received salvation. And so his anger toward his father has been touched by mercy.
42:05 -  And yet there was yet a pall over the man. Praise God for the degree of what he has received. But he has not received something in full.
42:17 -  And that something needs to be pursued. And as we talked about, the flight here was delayed about Maoris and the victim mentality that indigenous peoples have,
42:29 -  that they have been brutalized and exploited, taken advantage of by white European oppressors. And so long as you have a mentality of being victim,
42:41 -  something works in your psyche that allows a justification for violence and brutality. I don't know. I'm not a psychologist. I don't understand the dynamics. But a victim mentality, as I see with the North American Indians,
42:56 -  has as its companion piece brutality against each other, violence, the high rate of suicide, alcoholism, drugs. The victim mentality disintegrates the human personality.
43:10 -  But the heck of the matter is that the whole concept of victim is itself a moral lapse. And that what needs to be examined is where is God
43:23 -  in the kinds of exploitation or displacement that indigenous people have faced? Could it be seen and considered that the white man who has come in the European, in that displacement, is actually a rod of God's chastisement for sin against God,
43:42 -  for the rejection of the revelation of God that is to be found even in nature, for forsaking the Creator and worshiping creation, and opening up the demonic spirit and celebrating that as God,
43:55 -  and that the violence that was an expression of that tribal life between tribes preceded any violence that has come in modern times, and that how did they come here themselves?
44:10 -  But in exile, why were they in exile from their original places of habitation? Was that already a statement of judgment for them, as exile has always invariably been a statement of judgment for Israel?
44:23 -  These questions need to be raised in the history of one's own nation. If the nation is to come to a place of relative moral health, but I know that there's a propensity to sweep history under the carpet
44:42 -  and not to bring up painful considerations. And if the Church will not have a stomach for examining its history and the history of its nation from this moral perspective,
44:56 -  how can we ask it of the world? And if there's something in these questions that need to be raised for Maoris themselves, who will have the moral courage to do so?
45:11 -  I've only recently spoken in Germany in a message that brought me all the way from New York to Germany for one message, the issue of proclaiming the Gospel to the Jew in Germany. Why is that an issue?
45:29 -  Because now there are one to three hundred thousand Jews in Germany. Who ever imagined that Jews would desire to be resident in Germany again? And the German nation, because of its conscience strickenness out of the past Holocaust,
45:45 -  provides such considerations, such stipends and housing allowances and other considerations that numbers of Russian Jews have come to Germany rather than to Israel and even to the United States because the benefits are so great.
46:00 -  And so there's been a swelling Jewish community. And so my question to the Church in Germany is, are you bringing the Gospel to the Jews who are now in your midst?
46:12 -  Because the Church that will ignore the message of the Gospel forfeits its function as the Church and its character. Well, there's every reason not to bring the Gospel to the Jew in Germany
46:27 -  because who are we as Germans whose blood, their blood is so freshly upon our hands to tell them that they need our Christ when we ourselves were the agents of their recent destruction? Can you see the terrible fix that the German Church is in?
46:47 -  And yet if they fail, God has put these Jews in their bosom to promulgate the one message that touches the issue of salvation for eternity. How shall they answer God in their moral failure?
47:04 -  There's a moral question here of responsibility before God for Jews. For Paul says, I'm not ashamed of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek.
47:20 -  There's the clear mandate in every nation, including Germany. You can imagine how terrified these Germans were, as I'm saying. You have an obligation to promulgate the Gospel to the Jew in your midst.
47:35 -  And they know, how do we dare? It will be looked upon as the most terrible affront. To say that it's impolite doesn't begin to touch it.
47:45 -  It will be considered a shocking insensitivity that you Germans are telling us about your Christ. And if we don't receive your Christ, we're going to be damned. And in your Christian country, the nation of Luther, we ourselves were eliminated by the millions.
48:06 -  This is the most colossal affront that could ever be put before a Jew. And yet, if you fail in this, the whole issue of the Church is at stake. And the Church collapses in its own integrity.
48:25 -  And in that vacuum created by your failure, the powers of darkness that are as available now as they were in the time of the collapse of the Church in the Nazi time, will quickly fill that vacuum. And you might see a more horrible moral dilemma of a renazification of Germany, yet more horrendous than it was at the first.
48:52 -  So there's a moral question before the German Church of a Gospel responsibility, though to fulfill it is nothing less or other than walking into a death. It's the cross to take up that responsibility and to face the indignation and anger of the Jew in speaking this message
49:15 -  and stuttering and choking at the bit and being stupefied by sophisticated, urbane Jews. And you can hardly get a word out. It's nothing less nor other than an invitation to dying, to death, to humiliation.
49:32 -  But every moral question in the last analysis is that invitation. The Church in New Zealand, if it's to save its own Maori people from their own destruction, needs to raise the question of whether they are victims or they have received a righteous judgment
49:55 -  from the rod of chastisement that the European has been for them. And therefore they cannot cultivate this self-pitying thing that leads to their own psychological destruction and the release of violence upon others and upon themselves.
50:12 -  But who would have the courage to raise such a question being white? And in what spirit must that kind of question come, either to the Jew in Germany or to the Maori in New Zealand or the indigenous people of Australia?
50:32 -  It can't come from the people who bring a spirit of moral superiority. It can only come from people who have broken themselves in contrite, who recognize in themselves that they share with those to whom they come the same essential condition
50:53 -  and fallenness and have received their grace from God that they're wanting now to communicate. Maybe it's for the want of that broken and contrite spirit, which in God's sight is great price, that the question has not even come to the consideration of the Church and therefore cannot even begin to be answered.
51:16 -  This morning's message not only spoke about the radiance that will come to Israel with her restoration, singing aloud from the heights of Zion, They shall be radiant over the goodness of the Lord, over the grain, the wine, the oil,
51:30 -  over the young of the flock, the herd. Their life shall become like a watered garden. They shall never languish again. This is going to be Israel's millennial condition,
51:42 -  but the charge to the Church was it ought to be our present condition. We have already come into the everlasting covenant, which we call the New Covenant,
51:53 -  and which they will receive as God's grace in their restoration, unconditionally. God doesn't even wait for their repentance to grant it. They shall be as a watered garden,
52:06 -  and because of that they shall bless all the families of the earth and fill the earth with their fruit. But we who believe should already be in the condition that is yet future for Israel.
52:18 -  And my question was, why are we not presently as a watered garden? Why are we not presently rejoicing and singing from the heights of Zion? And why are we not rejoicing for and receiving the benefit of the grain, the wine, and the oil?
52:36 -  The anointing of God, the Spirit of God, which is symbolized in wine, grain, the bread of the Lord and His Word, and they shall never languish again.
52:48 -  I think the Church is presently languishing and is somehow not a testimony of what is already positionally ours. Something is keeping us from a demonstration of that which is yet future for Israel.
53:04 -  And I believe it has to do with the things that are moral. There's some essential issue in the realm of moral that we have ignored and not considered, taken to heart,
53:16 -  and worked out with God in righteousness that keeps us in a place yet from being joyous, yet from exhibiting the exhilarating thing
53:30 -  that will be Israel's experience and should be presently ours. So that's what I'm putting before you in an experimental way tonight, because I have a moral responsibility
53:45 -  to speak on the subject of the word moral before I have yet myself come to a defining, but just to commence and to begin
53:56 -  to get the word out for the consideration of the Church, to take that word into our thought and into our hearts, and to open our eyes to see that every issue
54:10 -  in the last analysis is a moral issue, and moral issues are requirements of a kind that we cannot face without God.
54:21 -  It takes God to be a man, and it takes morality, a moral sense, to be human. God has boxed us in in a moral universe
54:33 -  that for our own humanity's sake, for its fullness as a watered garden able to sing in Zion, we have got to come to a place of moral rectitude,
54:46 -  of rightness with God, and see this as a central issue that touches the whole of our life,
54:55 -  our history, our family, our condition. My son is a picture of the nominal Church, growing up in Christian community,
55:04 -  learning to parrot the vocabulary of the faith, but not at all conscience-stricken, like the CEOs who bilk their corporations of millions,
55:15 -  and know no shame, no embarrassment, will not acknowledge a lapse of a moral kind. The best they can do, it was a mistake.
55:25 -  My son is not even willing to acknowledge a mistake, but he justifies himself in his egoistic concern for the gratification of his own lust.
55:35 -  He doesn't see it as lust. He sees it as fulfillment, and that he can set in motion a proceeding by which
55:44 -  his children will be adversely affected through their entire lifetimes, not to speak of the testimony of the Lord,
55:53 -  not to speak of his own calling. He's a victim himself of a failed Christianity that somehow failed to communicate
56:02 -  the issues of the faith in so earnest a way that would have required a real conversion, and was able to parrot the phrases so as to get by,
56:14 -  but not sufficiently to affect his life, his marriage, his choices, and his decisions. To think that he would allow himself a liberty of flirtation,
56:26 -  and allowing a wife to be vexed, and arguments to erupt by which he was justified in foul and obscene language in the hearing of his children,
56:37 -  and allow the condition so to be promoted that it would be untenable to continue so he would be justified to leave and begin anew.
56:47 -  This is how devious the human heart is when it has not been shaped to consider moral questions. What is the morality?
56:59 -  What is the moral justification for allowing a marriage to dissolve in an ugly contest in courts
57:08 -  with the children witnessing the entire debacle and carrying the psychic wounds of that into their own adulthood and making them candidates also for failed marriage and life?
57:23 -  All we need to do is multiply this illustration many times over, and we have a picture, not only of the condition of the world, the condition of the church.
57:33 -  I don't know what it is in Australia, but in America, the statistic of divorce is as great for Christians as it is for those who are not.
57:42 -  Something is wanting, dear saints, and God is wanting to sound a word for our consideration and not defining it.
57:52 -  Maybe he wants us to bestow ourselves, to take it into our deeps because I've learned long ago the great words cannot be defined.
58:02 -  We cannot go to the dictionary for the great words of redemption or sacrifice, love, truth.
58:09 -  These words need to be apprehended or to be apprehended by them. It's a struggle, and we're lazy, we're slothful, we're indifferent.
58:18 -  We don't want to wrestle over words or their meaning or really over life and its meaning or our history and its meaning,
58:26 -  and therefore there's a kind of a universal lapse, a neglect, and it has been reflected and is now finding its expression in our culture, in the theater, in movies, TV,
58:38 -  finance, in every area of the world, sport. So what is the Church if it has lost its moral dimension and its consciousness of that word and its implication?
58:56 -  So I don't know how to go further, but just to pray for the birthing of a word that has suffered a too great and too long neglect.
59:08 -  And maybe if it has ever come into expression, it's as moralizing or as if the issue of what is moral is the issue of the length of the skirt
59:19 -  or some of the outward superficiality. Moral is deep. Moral is at the heart. Moral is spiritual.
59:27 -  Moral in the last analysis is the issue of the cross. The issue of what is moral is the issue of suffering. We'll not obtain to what is moral without suffering.
59:37 -  Truth is a suffering before it's a glory. It's painful to consider issues that by nature we want to chuck off, sweep under the carpet, not consider,
59:48 -  but it will catch up with us and express itself in mental breakdowns and psychological disorders and varicose veins and tumors and all of the kinds of things that must be registered on mankind
01:00:04 -  that was created by God, the author of a moral world, for moral living. If we will not live in the righteousness which God intends for us and the humanity that is essentially moral,
01:00:17 -  it will show up in our bodies, our minds, our emotions, in broken families and wrecked marriages and all of the kinds of things of which the world is filled
01:00:28 -  with the profuse litter and tragedy and suffering. The Church is first in the restoration of the word moral and bringing it even to the consideration of its own society
01:00:42 -  and its own nation and to the world. We have a moral obligation to bring the word moral to the consideration not only of an immoral world but an amoral world
01:00:55 -  that does not even want so much as to consider the word at all. And it will cost us to be obedient to that consideration. So join me in a prayer.
01:01:10 -  Lord, what shall we say to you? First gratitude that we inhabit a moral universe is very structure, its nature,
01:01:29 -  is composed by a God whose very essence is moral and it reflects it, its rhythm, its seasons, the whole cycle of things, the logic, the wisdom of it,
01:01:43 -  the whatsoever man does, that too shall he reap. There's something implicit and intrinsic in very creation itself. And if we will not see it and will not heed it,
01:01:55 -  there will be disruption. There will be things going amiss. It will be registered in our bodies and our minds.
01:02:03 -  Our children will go wild. Violence will become commonplace, first in language and then in fact. And men who burn books will not long take to be burning men.
01:02:17 -  So what shall we learn, my God, from Nazi Germany, the land of Goethe, Schiller, Fichte, Hegel, Nietzsche, Schopenhauer, Kant, great giants of philosophy, ethics even, poetry, literature,
01:02:31 -  who were brought to a place in all their culture where they could burn men without the twinge of an eyelash without any kind of moral consequence
01:02:46 -  because culture does not of itself bring this dimension. Somehow the culture could become impressive and yet a nation could be established without a moral core.
01:03:02 -  It was not founded in the Church, it was not founded in society, and its expression was the tragedy of the annihilation of six million Jews and the near destruction of civilization itself.
01:03:15 -  So, my God, teach us what history means. Teach us what the indifference to the word moral means in nations, in history, in family and in life.
01:03:27 -  And renew, my God, and stir in us a concern for this lapsed word. Open our eyes, my God, to see every issue that's before us, that we see as something practical or expedient,
01:03:43 -  really is at its heart a moral question. And may we decide rightly, not on the basis of convenience, but on the basis of what is morally pleasing in your sight.
01:03:56 -  And for that, no kind of ground rule will be sufficient, but an intimate sense of your own heart and righteousness. Come, my God, we will not be human or humane until we are at first moral.
01:04:12 -  Bring us, Lord, to this condition, this state. Have such a Church in the earth, my God, that can draw the attention of a world that is collapsing
01:04:25 -  and save out of it as many as will. We thank you and give you praise for your jealous heart over this. In Jesus' name, Amen.
01:04:37 -  Final word. What is moral? This might be helpful. To incur a duty, to take on responsibility,
01:04:52 -  to accept responsibility, to make oneself liable, to be entreated, to accept an office, to answer the call, to become engaged,
01:05:06 -  to take on a concern, to discharge one's duty, to obey. Why are we not a watered garden? Because we're not watering others.
01:05:19 -  We're not taking on a responsibility. We're not willing to be charged with a call. This is the heart of what is moral.
01:05:30 -  It's, in the last analysis, an act of duty, of obedience, of concern, to be entrusted to accept a responsibility, to make oneself liable, to incur a duty.
01:05:46 -  And not to flake off by saying we're not qualified, who am I to be called, I'm not a preacher, I'm not a teacher, I don't have what it takes.
01:05:57 -  There's a vacuum and a want of office and authority that needs to be performed in the church. And men are deficient and defunct.
01:06:11 -  And maybe it explains the greater rise of women who are more disposed to fill that vacuum than men. So we're failing at the heart of what is moral
01:06:23 -  by an unwillingness to assume responsibility. So Brother said, saints come to my house, I didn't invite them, and they sit themselves down as if they expect something from me.
01:06:38 -  And I don't feel like I have an obligation. And I don't have anything especially to say. Well, look upon it as God giving a responsibility.
01:06:49 -  They're there through providence and through sovereignty. And open up and share with them something out of this morning's devotional time. Examine something with them out of today's song.
01:07:01 -  Don't neglect a point of beginning with people who have come to you in need. Take it up as duty and as obligation and grow in it and God will water you as you water others.
01:07:14 -  It's a moral neglect not to be to the church what we ought. And to find justification by saying that we're not qualified is an insult to God whose grace is sufficient
01:07:27 -  in our willingness to be extended and to be responsible. Lord, take that last PS and fit it into the message and let anyone here who has been indifferent and careless,
01:07:43 -  casual, fleeing from responsibility, not wanting to have an obligation to which other men look, that they will be pricked at this moral lapse.
01:07:59 -  And be repentant over it and see that there is no accident in men knocking at the door or occasion coming as God summoning them to be raised up
01:08:13 -  and accepting a responsibility in which you will provide every grace so to do. May we grow, my God, from faith to faith and obedience to obedience to be, my God, a church that is watered
01:08:30 -  and rejoices and sings and has oil, wine and wheat so as to feed and to liven others. We thank you and give you praise for the privilege of responsibility
01:08:46 -  and the grace to fill it in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, bless you.