The Word of Faith

00:00 -  I just found myself stumbling right into my text, Romans 10, faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of the Lord. I just want to share just a few things this morning about the remarkable apostolic mode
00:23 -  by which those who have been ages long opposed to the gospel are to be brought into its benefit and blessing by the word. So we're backing up a little from Romans 11 to Romans 10.
00:43 -  Maybe let's read from verse 8, but what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of faith which we are preaching.
00:55 -  That if you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you shall be saved. For with the heart man believes resulting in righteousness and with the mouth he confesses
01:09 -  resulting in salvation. For the scripture says, whosoever believes in him will not be disappointed. For there's no distinction between the Jew and Greek for the same Lord as Lord of all
01:21 -  abounding in riches for all who call upon him. Whosoever therefore will call upon the name of the Lord will be saved. But how then shall they call upon him in whom they have not believed?
01:34 -  And how shall they believe in whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach unless they are sent?
01:44 -  As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who bring glad tidings of good things. Verse 17, so faith comes from hearing and hearing by the word of Christ. Well that's a remarkable portion of text and in this commentary by John Stott, the English
02:14 -  commentator, preacher on a new book on Romans, he raises the question, well he says first that believing is logically prior to calling, so hearing is logically prior to believing. But what kind of hearing however?
02:35 -  Everything, you know if it's a dull ear it sounds like some kind of inane formula, whosoever shall call in the name of the Lord shall be saved. Well how shall they call in whom they have not believed and how shall they believe in
02:47 -  him of whom they have not heard? This can be reduced to some kind of formula by putting before the consideration of Jews or anyone something that they can believe, something that they can confess, some kind
03:00 -  of mechanical knee-jerk action, a kind of a simple believism that in fact probably characterizes modern day evangelism and has left many outside the kingdom. They've recited something that they were encouraged to repeat and have missed the whole profound
03:19 -  point. And maybe it's because there's a certain kind of hearing that is required for a certain kind of believing and requires therefore a certain kind of preaching, a certain kind
03:33 -  of word. And for the want of any better definition I would say apostolic proclamation, apostolic announcement.
03:42 -  And you know that Paul is actually citing from scriptures in the book of Isaiah when he says how beautiful are the feet of those who bring glad tidings of good things. And it's interesting when you turn back there, by the way one thing it shows, the remarkable
04:01 -  and continuing continuity between Old and New Testament things. Paul's statements that are new and fresh revelatory, that become for us truths of the New Testament are reflections and insights gained out of the Old, or Paul would not be Paul.
04:21 -  And so in Isaiah 52, where it says, verse 7, how lovely on the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who announces peace, and brings good news of happiness, who announces salvation, and says to Zion, your God reigns, is preceded by some remarkable
04:42 -  verse, 6, therefore my people shall know my name, therefore in that day I am the one who is speaking here, I am. Then it says, how lovely on the mountains are the feet of him who bring good news, who
05:03 -  announce peace. I want to take the liberty of saying, pronounce or proclaim, it's not merely an announcement, it's not merely a verbalization, it's a word that when it is sounded constitutes an event.
05:20 -  Announcement doesn't quite get at it, and that is the distinctive of apostolic preaching or prophetic proclamation, the word is not merely informative, it's even beyond something that is inspirational, the word is a creative rama and breath of God that in the hearing
05:42 -  of which an event occurs, where there was no faith, there's faith, isn't it remarkable as intellectual as Jews are, God does not say a word to us about propounding the faith to them in some systematic way by which their logic can be satisfied and that they can be
06:02 -  won over by some kind of invincible logic of statements, instead what he says is the key to their believing and their calling on the name of the Lord is the hearing of a particular word, the word of Christ, not the word about Christ though necessarily that will be the
06:25 -  subject, but the word of Christ himself. Why are the feet of those who bear good tidings be blessed? Because I am the one who is speaking, I am, that the one who is speaking through those whose feet bear the good tidings is not the earthen vessel on that mount, but
06:52 -  the one who possesses that life and is speaking through it is actually Christ's own word, they hear the voice of their own Messiah which is to say of their own God and his word is creative as it was in the beginning, he spoke and it was. Now even as you're hearing me
07:14 -  your faith staggers, all the more if we are called to be the bearers of the proclamation, it's our feet, it's the feet of him, the lowliest part on the body which is to say the body, but the voice and the speaking and the content and the words that constitute the creative
07:38 -  event that establishes faith to believe so that those who have been hostile and resistant can call is actually his voice, his speaking and his words. We might believe it through some giants of the faith like Paul, but can we believe the phenomenon through ourselves?
08:04 -  That God would have so much the possession of us who are the sons and daughters of resurrection that we might say with absolute certitude it is not we that speak and even this morning we're being tested that you're believing the word that's coming out of my mouth for
08:22 -  yourself as bearers of a word to the Jewish people for if they do not call on the name of the Lord, the jig is up and the whole thing is finished. We're not just talking about their individual salvation, however great that is, we are talking about the consummation
08:43 -  of the age that waits upon a restoration of a remnant from the people Israel who have been historically adamantly opposed to this very gospel and are the enemies to this day for your sake. How shall they believe in what they have so long rejected? God says through
09:07 -  Paul, they shall hear a word of a particular kind. How shall they believe in him who have not heard? What do you mean, Katz, you lived in a Christian country for 34 years and you had never heard the name of Christ? Well, sure I heard, but it was pablum, it was antiseptic,
09:27 -  it had no cogency, no penetration, it was just a vocalization. There's hearing and hearing and there's speaking and speaking and there's faith and faith. So unless some people are commissioned for the task they will be no gospel preachers. Unless the gospel is preached
09:47 -  sinners will not hear. Christ's message and voice, unless they hear him they will not believe the truths of his death and resurrection. Isn't it interesting what the formula is? If you believe in your heart that Jesus is Lord and God has raised him from the dead
10:03 -  thou shalt be saved. Have you realized lately that the most staggering and calculatedly impossible doctrine to believe is resurrection? That God can raise the dead? You want to have a Jew just laugh in your face and what is a Jew but the epitome of western modern civilized
10:27 -  rational man? What do you call it when you have to touch something in order to have a truth demonstrated? Empirical. The empirically minded, rationalistic, logical, secular minded, talk about minds, the Jew is the epitome of an entire mindset that is calculated against
10:53 -  the foolishness of God in the gospel. And this is the final last days collision course between the church and that people. And if something does not come out of that collision and confrontation by which they call upon the name of the Lord, there is no consummation,
11:14 -  there is no conclusion. The Lord remains contained and bound up in the heavens. There is no kingdom come. They have not said blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. They are still thumbing their nose at Jesus and calling him a mamza which is the Hebrew or
11:30 -  Yiddish for bastard. For what else shall he be called if you do not believe in his divine conception? And how shall you believe that? It is supernatural and you are eminently the rationalist and that is why Luther was so concerned for the presence of Jews in reformation
11:53 -  Europe for even in their silence they were islands of unbelief that he felt would corrupt the naivety of the faith of those around. And that is why on every Passover Easter Jews had to lock their doors from the persecutions that would come against those who were the
12:11 -  Christ killers and who by their silence were still testifying that what their fathers had done was right. They had killed the usurper and a political misfit and an itinerant preaching bum who had allowed people to believe that he was somehow the Messiah of God and Israel's
12:30 -  awaited deliverer when any fool can tell you that it could not have been true for had he come there would not be bloodshed on the earth today and violence for the lion would be lying with the lamb, etc., etc., etc. Isn't it remarkable how nothing has changed? Everything
12:51 -  remains as it was and the issues of the church of the last days that shook the church at its inception will shake it again at the end. The enormous collision over the radical question of whether the Gospel is in fact true as it will be tested and contested by those who are
13:14 -  constitutionally made to resist it, the cerebral, intellectual, secular, rationalistic, empirically minded Jew. You have got your work cut out for you. You have got your work cut out for you. Unless they hear, unless, unless, I like the way John Stott says it, unless some people
13:42 -  are commissioned for the task and this isn't for everybody and anybody, Israel is clotted with hundreds if not thousands of self-appointed junior messiahs who have come to Israel to deliver the nation and feel that they have a call from God, who are the worst flakes and carnal Christians
14:04 -  as you can imagine. No one had ever sent them. And when you talk to them, and from what body have you come? Who is it that has sent you by the laying on of hands and has commissioned you and recognizes and authenticates your call of God? Well, the fact of the matter is I have actually
14:26 -  been out of fellowship for about a dozen years. I just can't find a church really that is worthy of my attending. But God has called me. I have such a burden for the Jew. I wish I could take the whole nation and tilt it and let the residue of the carnal and self-appointed just slip into oblivion.
14:47 -  Aren't you glad I'm not God? He's nodding. You know what the issue of a sent one is? By the way, as our brother, the Greek authority would tell us, what is the root meaning of the word sent that we read in English? What is that in Greek? The Greek word sent is the root meaning of the word sent.
15:09 -  The Greek authority would tell us what is the root meaning of the word sent that we read in English? What is that in Greek? Sent. Apostolo. A sent one is an apostolo. The root meaning of the word apostolic is sent one. There are many that went, but there are a few that are sent. You know why? Because a
15:34 -  sending body is the rarest of all phenomena. Apostolic men don't grow on trees. They're banged into shape and formed and conditioned in the Ben Israels of the world. The little nothing joints of God's motley people knocking about in the intensity of daily life and the issues that arise, created largely by themselves,
16:06 -  and the Lord behind the scenes fashions apostolic character and apostolic men and apostolic sending bodies. And if that laying on of hands is only ceremonial, if it's only a kind of curtsy, a little neat gesture of a kind of sentimental kind, you might as well stay home. If you're going to face a Jewish audience in Toulouse, France and speak on
16:33 -  Jewish seriousness to God, which is non-existent, and call them to that seriousness, because unless they have a repentance toward God first, there's no prospect of a faith in Jesus Christ. We're barking up the wrong tree when we promote the issue of Jesus to those who have not yet considered the issue of God. But after 2,000 years of not
17:06 -  considering and being satisfied with political Zionism or liberalism or rabbinical Judaism, and you're going to say that's counterfeit nonsense and escape, and you've not really ever considered God seriously, you're going to say, you better have some unction about you and have your chauffeur with you to answer the questions.
17:34 -  And you know where that unction comes from? And that authority to bring the penetrating word that rivets men in their seats, as I've seen God do at Harvard University, out of exhaustion and fasting? It's what comes because of the people who are joined in authentic relationship of an apostolic character and kind. That's why the Jews are
18:05 -  unsaved. They have not heard a word in the hearing of which faith would be created in order to believe so as to call upon Him who is rich, both to Gentile and Jew and all who call upon His name. All they have to do is believe in their heart that Jesus is Lord and that God has raised Him from the dead. What a simple formula.
18:30 -  But what an ultimate requirement. How shall they believe on Him unless they believe that He was raised from the dead? And how shall they believe that He was raised from the dead except that the evidence of the resurrection is both in the words, the demeanor, the voice, the tenor, the backbone, the disposition and the constitution of the man who stands
18:54 -  before them whose feet are blessed on the holy mountain of God and shows forth as the son of the resurrection the truth of the resurrection and whose words are resurrection words of creative power that the hearer can believe. That's the issue of the salvation of the Jew in the last days. They have nothing to do with it. They are altogether passive.
19:23 -  It is ourselves and what we present to them that is the issue of their salvation and their call. And their calling is the issue of the Lord's coming as King, the establishment of His Kingdom, His millennial rule and His glory. This is the whole staggering climax of the age. Unless they hear His voice, hear Him, they will not believe the truths of His death and
19:48 -  resurrection because in hearing the one who is sent, they hear Him who was raised from the dead and therefore can be called Lord because the issue of Jesus' resurrection is the issue of His Lord's coming. And the Lord's coming is the issue of His Lordship. Why should any Jew call any man Lord merely because he spoke the sermon on the mount or gave
20:20 -  other evidences of prophetic impressiveness? Something more is required for a Jew to call a man Lord. And the issue of the resurrection is the issue of the authenticity of Jesus' Lordship. As we may have touched this morning in Philippians chapter 2, and being found in appearances of man, He humbled Himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross.
20:46 -  Therefore, verse 9, also God highly exalted Himself to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, verse 9, also God exalted Himself to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, Each resulted Him and bestowed upon Him the name which is above every name that at the name of Jesus, every knee should bow of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the
21:13 -  earth and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is the exaltation of the one who experienced an ultimate humiliation unto death. His Lordship is being exalted above every name. That's what is conferred upon Him through His resurrection for His obedience unto death, even the death of the
21:36 -  cross. And that's why whosoever shall believe that Jesus is Lord and God hath raised Him from the dead shall be saved. Those are the two principle doctrines and they are inextricably joined together. No resurrection, no Lordship. So in seeing the resurrection of Christ and hearing the resurrection of Jesus Christ, the resurrection of Jesus Christ, the resurrection of Jesus Christ, the resurrection
22:06 -  of Jesus Christ, the voice of the resurrected Christ and the messenger whose feet is blessed upon the mountain and brings the glad tidings, the unbelieving Jew who has no preparation for this encounter and has every historic disposition to resist it because it's the end of His Lordship over His own life of the small L. It's the end of His bank account, His Warner Brothers studios, His business
22:31 -  mergers of what He's going to do, His philanthropies by which His justification is established in His own sight, that He's a great guy and He can win the plaque from Bernay Brith as the man of the year. All that is finished. All of that pseudo stuff is ended when Jesus becomes Lord and says, now you'll do my bidding. The reason that people balk at God who would otherwise enjoy God as
22:52 -  God is they don't like the Lord part. And the very first angelic pronouncement in Bethlehem was that this day there is born unto you Jesus, the Christ, the Lord. It's the Lordship that catches us in the throat and especially my Jewish people because they like to be their own. The Lordship that catches us in the throat and especially my Jewish people because they like to be their own.
23:14 -  It's the Lordship that catches us in the throat and especially my Jewish people because they like to be their own. To acknowledge that Jesus is Lord requires the power that raised Him from the dead. So to hear and see a messenger who speaks Christ's words is to give evidence that Christ is resurrected
23:36 -  for the messenger himself is the son of the resurrection or he is not apostolic. for the messenger himself is the son of the resurrection or he is not apostolic. And the body out of which he comes must be the body of a resurrected people who live in the power and the reality of resurrection
23:53 -  or there's no sending that constitutes a sent one. The whole issue is the truth of resurrection as it is experientially known. The whole issue is the truth of resurrection as it is experientially known
24:08 -  by a people in the earth or Jews remain locked in their unbelief. Nothing else will free them. So the messenger in the sent one is himself the evidence of that resurrection.
24:23 -  So the messenger in the sent one is himself the evidence of that resurrection. He brought God to the most adverse audience that a man would want to confront the philosophers and the stoics and the epicureans and the Jews and the synagogues.
24:38 -  He had the opposition of things honed to the finest degree He had the opposition of things honed to the finest degree that constitute both philosophical and religious opposition to Christ.
24:54 -  And he said, God has winked in times past, but he commands now men, all men everywhere to repent for he has appointed a day in which he will judge all men by that man whom he raised from the dead. for he has appointed a day in which he will judge all men by that man whom he raised from the dead.
25:09 -  Of all of the foolish things to say. How does he expect these Greeks to know anything about resurrection or reincarnation
25:24 -  or Jews, it was a doctrine that's offensive to Jewish sensibility and to Greek intellectuality and yet he puts all his eggs in that one basket and makes it the issue of resurrection of that man who will judge all men whom God has raised from the dead.
25:39 -  Oh, some said they'll hear again of this matter and never did and spent their eternity in hell. Others turned and discussed, but some clave unto Paul and believed. Others turned and discussed, but some clave unto Paul and believed.
25:54 -  How do you figure that? How can they believe in a doctrine that is so much a calculation against their upbringing, their intellectuality, there's no evidence for it, there's no preparation for it, they've never been indoctrinated toward it as we have religiously with the God we had not.
26:10 -  The only explanation is that the proof of the resurrection was Paul himself and they clave unto him and believed.
26:25 -  To believe the resurrection is to believe that Jesus is Lord. To believe that Jesus is Lord is to believe the resurrection. To believe it all is a miracle.
26:40 -  That takes place by the operation of God through speaking and hearing of one who is sent who brings the glad tidings that those who hear it might believe
26:55 -  and call upon the name of the Lord. More than just giving him a little honorific acknowledgement, it means the surrender of the independent life to the totality of God's authority once and for all
27:10 -  that is salvation and anything less and other than that is false. It's a powerful phenomenon and I don't know that it's reserved only for Jews. I think the whole world
27:25 -  and the world that is largely a Jewish modern secular and unbelieving world needs to hear and must hear that kind of word. I wrote in the margin only Israel in terms of its ages long apostasy and the opposition
27:40 -  of the powers of darkness that don't want them to call that a name of the Lord because they've been doing the bidding of darkness ever so long in their apostasy providing the Karl Marx's and the Sigmund Freud's and every kind of
27:55 -  other use of their genius to turn men from God rather than toward God. The powers of darkness don't want to let these people go that they might be returned to their God and their father. He wants them in their employ
28:10 -  and his employ. And that's why when you scratch a Jew any kind of powerful penetration, watch out watch the fur fly, watch the claws emerge. The most beatific
28:25 -  reserved intellectually modest and ethical men become savages and bare their teeth at you when you bring the Gospel in a penetrating way. They lose their cool entirely
28:40 -  because something deeper than their own life which has been their life more than they know the powers of darkness that have operated through them which is the power of the world at the heart of the world and the world's values, the world's mindset
28:55 -  the world's wealth, the world's commerce, the world's culture, the world's sensuality, the world's lust the world's ambition, the world's power. How do you think these athletes are getting $7 million to sign a football contract as wet jerks
29:10 -  just out of college? Because they have Jewish agents who know how to get the top dollar that the market will bear. They are the epitome of the world in its wisdom
29:25 -  its power, its lust, its ambition, its wealth. If you touch a Jew, Saints, you're not just touching a little piece of another ethnic people. You are touching the world at the heart of its
29:40 -  power and its animosity against God. The only reason that you're hearing this academically is because you've never experienced it. Because the church has cut
29:55 -  out and has not gone to the Jew first. There's a reason in God's wisdom why he establishes that priority. And I learned it as a high school teacher with black kids in Oakland, California
30:10 -  which was the birthplace of the Black Panthers whose offspring and later participants were in my classroom and didn't want to be there with Whitey who represented the establishment
30:25 -  and waited for any opportunity to do him in. And they were the big bullies of 240 pounds in the back of the room who never even were going to lift a finger about whether they were going to pass the class. They took an F from the first day.
30:40 -  They were just there to molest, to annoy, to plague you and to bring you down. Why was I saying that? Oh.
30:55 -  And always from the first day of the class is an issue to be decided. Who is in authority here? And they're back there already making their noises. But here up in the front row is one or two disturbances
31:10 -  of a lesser kind that your authority can handle. But those bullies back there, I don't know. But you know what happens if you look the other way? You know how we do? There's a way in which we somehow do not see what we do not want to see and see the kinds
31:25 -  of things that we think we are able to handle. If you just deal with the secondary disturbances and leave the bullies alone to continue their insubordination and their subversion,
31:40 -  you'll lose all authority over that class, including the lesser disturbances also. You have got to go to the bully first and establish the issue of your authority. To the Jew first
31:55 -  and also to the Greek. And when I say Jew, you know what I'm speaking about? The spirit of the world. And there are many Gentiles whose lifestyle is Jewish. How many Christians are bringing
32:10 -  up their children under the influence of Spock, Dr. Spock, let alone Freud, both of whom were Jews. There's more Jewish influence in Christian life, let alone secular, than you can imagine. And I'm not just talking about
32:25 -  Jews. Powerful. A small people numerically. Am I encouraging your anti-Semitism? Not at all. God forbid. I'm just speaking truths. These are the realities. We need to
32:40 -  know them because we have to face this people in the last days and final confrontation. For if they will not call upon the name of the Lord and remain fixed in their stubborn obstinacy and resistance to him into his
32:55 -  gospel, the whole consummation of all things remains in abeyance. This is the issue that it requires apostolic authority by those who are sent out from apostolic bodies.
33:10 -  Not just places where they would like to go, like Hawaii in the wintertime, the Lord will send them into the matrix, into the fiercest dens of iniquity and resistance to God and to believe
33:25 -  that there will be a power there in the gospel and in the presentation that reveals Jesus as resurrected Lord. Got the picture? I'll end now. Only Israel in terms of its
33:40 -  ages-long apostasy and the opposition of the powers of darkness that operate through them requires such an exclusive demonstration. And we could say that not only Israel, or Jews,
33:55 -  but all who share and subscribe to the secular, empirical, rational lifestyle, which is to say the modern world. The issue of the Jew is the issue of the world
34:10 -  and only apostolic power will meet it. Why does God bless the feet of those who bring good news, who pronounce peace, whose
34:25 -  word actually constitutes shalom? It's the event itself and establishes salvation, and who says, the Zion, your God reigns, and it's more than just a verbalization, because the one who's saying it
34:40 -  is the one in whom God in fact reigns. He's on Mars Hill because God reigns, and he's not back in Racine, Wisconsin, or some other place where he'd rather be. Got the idea? When he says
34:55 -  God reigns, though the one who is hearing him doesn't know the particular circumstances, the truth of the lordship in the man who is speaking is evident. There's a God who reigns, and the truth of his reigning as Lord
35:10 -  is demonstrated in the posture, the voice, the face, the demeanor, the character of the one who brings the glad tidings and says, your God reigns. Can you follow that? The messenger
35:25 -  is everything. He's the sent one, and that's why Jesus says, if they receive you, they receive me, and if they receive me, they receive him who sends me. You are the vital linkage with the living God, but you've got to be
35:40 -  something more than a well-meaning evangelistic Christian or a charismatic cream puff. You've got to be a piece of the resurrection yourself. Oh, I can tell you stories.
35:55 -  One story that I shut up. How did the Lord open the door for us in Egypt? How did he open the door for us in East Germany before the wall came down? And in many other places at a time where you just didn't
36:10 -  pick up and go to parts of the world because you liked exotic climes, it was ever and always a resurrection event that opened the door. And so I got a letter from a man in East Germany years ago who thought
36:25 -  he was Jewish, and he had read Ben Israel in German. I don't know how he got a copy of the book. And so he invited me to Leipzig, and there was the trade fair, the famous Leipzig trade fair that I could get a visa to come at that time to get a visa
36:40 -  to that part of the world was virtually impossible. And having gotten there, he takes me on a Friday night to the charismatic prayer meeting. And I'm sitting there like a lump, and they finally asked me to bring
36:55 -  a Grußwort, a little word of greeting, because you are not officially registered as a preacher, but you can bring a word of greeting. And I got up without any rehearsal or consideration and I said,
37:10 -  don't feel sorry for yourself. What is it when you're childish and you're petulant and you suck your lower lip and how come they are not me? How come the Western Christians have this
37:25 -  freedom and liberty and a better standard of living and we have to suffer that? I said, don't feel sorry for yourself. I know Christians in the Western world whose standard of living is less than yours and whose freedom is far more restricted than your own.
37:40 -  And if God has not a communist regime to employ to bring about these disciplines, in order to establish Godly character, he'll find something else. That's all I said. And when I finished,
37:55 -  people were coming up to me and one after another, and that opened the door for visits again and again and again and again. In Egypt, sitting on a platform in a Pentecostal church and looking for the exit,
38:10 -  they were singing but there was nothing I could recognize in their hymns that was in any way Christian. I thought I was in a mosque. It was Islamic. Their carnal condition was written on them. I was totally out of
38:25 -  place. And there was a new interpreter. I'd never met the man before. A Presbyterian pastor was going to interpret for me and I'm looking for the exit. Lord, I know you've bailed me out countless times, but how can I get out of this? This is hopeless.
38:40 -  And at the last moment, as I'm hearing my name being announced and the sense of dread coming over me, the Lord breathes a scripture into my spirit. Israel, I have loved as a child, but I've called my
38:55 -  son out of Egypt. I said, Lord, no way. Uh-uh. No way that they can understand anything as sophisticated as that. They'll see me as a Jewish Zionist against Egypt,
39:10 -  against that culture. They'll see me as a white American imperialist. There's no way. But what do you do when the Lord reigns? When the Lord reigns, you say what he gives you. You speak his word.
39:25 -  And I opened my mouth and I said, Israel, he has loved as a child, but his son he has called out of Egypt. And when the Lord finished that message, every man was on his face.
39:40 -  The carnal ones that I thought could never hear a word as spiritually sophisticated as that were stretched before God. We went on until all hours of the night. The pastor got his family before me. He got his elders before me. I had to anoint and pray for each one. That man
39:55 -  has gone on to a ministry to Islamic nations of 20 or 30 Islamic nations. His call came that night. And unbeknownst to me, he told me later, I had cried out to God that afternoon, Lord, if you don't bring a word, I'm finished.
40:10 -  I'm hopeless. I'm destitute. I cannot go on. I've tried every American trick and device and gimmick. It doesn't work where there's no increase numerically. There's no increase spiritually.
40:25 -  I'm finished unless you bring a word and send a word. That night the word came. Israel, I've loved as a child, but I've called my son out of Egypt. How come I wasn't seen as a Jew? How come I wasn't the American imperialist?
40:40 -  How come those East Germans latched on me as if I had come from another planet and I had said something that penetrated their hearts because I knew believers whose freedom was less than their own in the Western world and whose economy
40:55 -  was more restricted, namely ourselves here at Ben Israel living beneath the American poverty level. The doors were opened through the power of resurrection and the authority
41:10 -  of the Spirit out of the sending that comes from a knockabout body that is in this place because it's looking for something more than charismatic fun and games or even evangelical security.
41:25 -  How shall they hear except one be sent? And how shall he preach except he be sent? And how shall they hear except he preach? For faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word
41:40 -  of Christ. Let's pray for an apostolic sending body in the locations that we represent in this room and a people
41:55 -  who recognize that if we make of that language another kind of bad as we did with submission and what's the other word submission and
42:10 -  shepherding and submission and now use the words apostolic and prophetic as another kind of new vocabulary, we of all people will most be pitied. Would you be jealous for the sanctity of these great words?
42:25 -  That the condition necessary again and again that makes resurrection life possible and existent is death. It's being on the platform and staying
42:40 -  there when your flesh wants to run elsewhere and it's putting up with the guff of the everyday irritations and frustrations and things that constitute community life before it becomes the
42:55 -  apostolic reality. There are multiple deaths. Jesus bore them and for that reason God exalted him and gave him a name before above every other that whosoever shall bow to that name and say that Jesus'
43:10 -  Lord shall be saved. So Lord in Jesus' name put the icing on the cake and the cherry on the icing that the whole issue in the last analysis
43:25 -  is that God has raised you from the dead. What an impossible doctrine to explain to unbelieving secular minded men
43:40 -  and it requires not explanation but demonstration in those who bear the good tidings and who say your Lord reigns because what is unspoken but must be true
43:55 -  is that he reigns in me or I would not be here before you a Jewish and hostile face in an encounter from which my own flesh wants to run. He's Lord because God has highly
44:10 -  exalted him and given a name above every name because he submitted himself in humiliation unto death having been made in the form of man even the death of the cross and he's going to succeed
44:25 -  in his last days ventures in the thing that consummates his purposes both with the Jew and with creation on the basis of that death and resurrection or not at all. Have you made your peace with it? Are you on
44:40 -  resurrection ground? And staying on that ground on the condition that it invariably always requires death after death after death to those who will bear
44:55 -  it for his namesake and his glory. There's no glory without resurrection. Resurrection is glory and it needs to be seen in those who are sent of whom
45:10 -  God can say I am the one who is speaking here I am. You unbelieving Jewish kinsman. You chronic doubter.
45:25 -  You skeptic. You intellectual misfit. You self independent and sufficient piece of humanity. Here I am and I am speaking.
45:40 -  Take your shoes off and come down on your Jewish nose and surrender to the God of your fathers. Precious God hasten the day. Have such a church. Have such a
45:55 -  sending. Have such sent ones. Have such messengers who don't come with four spiritual laws or five and little patsy formulas and for salvation step one step two. God has a plan for your life.
46:10 -  You speak the words of Christ. Whatever that word might be in power and authority because their Lord reigns.
46:25 -  Lord seal this word and let it come into the understanding of those who are not getting it at the first hearing as the very evidence of power in the word sufficient for our own understanding and believing
46:40 -  even when our own natural minds stagger at it. Triumph even this morning and through these days on one basis only the truth and the power of resurrection from the dead
46:55 -  and that Jesus is Lord and we thank you and we give you the praise in Jesus name. Amen.