Theological Deception

00:00 -  What's the root of these theologies that take flight, that refuse to acknowledge what seems to us so evident? What's at the root of the deviant theologies that dismiss Israel? Somewhere it says in the Gospels, if you will do his will, you will know if the doctrine is true.
00:25 -  If you're willing to do his will, suffer the consequence of obedience, you'll know the truth of the doctrine. So what I'm wanting to say is, men choose their theologies and their positions on the basis of their moral condition. What are they willing to consider if they don't like a certain eschatological framework,
00:47 -  because it has to do with collisions and last day's confrontation and violence, an apocalyptic scenario. They prefer to see that as past, so they don't have to entertain the possibility of living through it. That is to say, they have not the grit, they have not the gut for the truth.
01:07 -  So that the choice of doctrine and theologies in the last analysis, a moral question, not an intellectual question. If you're willing to do his will, if you're willing to suffer the consequences of an obedience to his will, he will show you that his doctrine is true. You'll get the Lord's own perspective.
01:27 -  But if you're devious and evasive and an escapist and an avoidance of the cross of suffering and pain, you'll find a way to concoct a perspective that suits your purpose. So we have to know, in the last analysis for ourselves and for others, our theology and our doctrine is a moral question.
01:52 -  If you will know and be willing, he'll show you what is true. You've got to come to prophecy without strings attached. You can't come with already having a certain disposition and will for a certain conclusion.
02:10 -  Then find scriptures that will support you. It's got to be the scripture that speaks to you and not you to the scripture. Some of you know that we're in conflict with leaders in Israel over the issue of Israel's coming devastation. Why won't they consider that? Because they said, well, what about our ministries?
02:28 -  How could Israel devastate it? What about our ministry? So notice they have a vested interest in the perpetuation of the state. It's because they do not want to consider that that could come to an end because the implications for themselves are totally unacceptable.
02:43 -  Then they find scriptures to establish a view that they have already chosen. You don't come with a preconceived notion of how you would want it to support your view. You come without a view. So the focus is on their ministry as being the saving grace for the nation.
03:03 -  And here's already the evidence. See the number of Jews being saved? So how do you interpret that phenomenon? How extensive is that revival? And is it in fact the nation or a remedy from the nation that is the mercy of God?
03:17 -  If the time of Jacob's trouble is yet future, the Holocaust is not that time. And the context shows that it doesn't take place in Germany, Europe. It takes place in Jerusalem. So it's a piece of exegetical irresponsibility to say that the time of Jacob's trouble has been passed and it was the Holocaust.
03:37 -  But if Jesus is saying that there's a time coming that will exceed any trouble that the nation has known or will again know, then it must equal the Nazi Holocaust. So your question, what about the present you? Well, if there's going to be a time of annihilation greater than the six million of the Nazi time,
04:00 -  we ought to do everything in our power to bring as many individuals, individual Jews as we can into the safety of the Ark of Messiah now. And we're often praying for the elect. He said, if it were not for the elect, no flesh would survive. But for the elect's sake, this time will be cut short. So we're praying continually for the elect.
04:24 -  Lord, preserve the elect in the coming calamity that will befall Jews, not only in Israel, but globally, wherever Jacob is. So there's an imperative to reach out to Jews presently in view of the coming calamity. Now, put that together with the first proclamation of the gospel at the day of Pentecost.
04:46 -  They saw the sign of the Spirit falling upon all flesh. Peter said, this is that. What is he referring to? This is the prophecy spoken in Joel. Not only will the Spirit be caught on all flesh, but the moon will be darkened. The sun will lose its light and great havoc in nature and final judgment of God.
05:07 -  And then they cried out, what must we do to be saved? They weren't talking about a place in heaven. They were talking about how are we to be saved out of this calamity prophesied in Joel for which we're seeing the first sign in the pouring out of the Spirit. And so he gave them an apocalyptic message of coming judgment. And he said, come out from this untold generation.
05:32 -  Repent and be baptized. Come out. That ought to be our message now. That ought to be the keystone of our present word to the Jewish community. There's a coming calamity that will eclipse the Nazi kind and come out from that judgment that will fall on this untold generation and be saved.
05:53 -  So how you view the future greatly affects your message to the Jew. Do we have the grit, the model grit to anticipate a time of such devastation in which we will be present? And in fact, if we're not present, there'll be no Jewish survival at all.
06:13 -  So the flesh wants to be out from so fearful a scenario as is depicted. And that's the reason for these deviant theologies. And in the last analysis after 40 years of the faith, every issue in the last analysis is the issue of the cross.
06:33 -  And in our conversation and debate with our brethren in Israel, we tell them that the difference between us is one of us has a greater proximity to the cross than the other. That is to say we have bit the bullet. We know that suffering is intrinsic to the faith, inexorable and inevitable. And we are prepared to anticipate it and to serve in that hour.
06:56 -  Whereas if you shrink from that, then you'll find a theology, a doctrine that will be comforting and give you an assurance by taking scriptures in such a way as to make a case for yourself. The issue of the cross, the issue of suffering, greatly affects how and what we are able to see, perceive and believe. We're not ashamed to say that to encourage Jews to go to Israel now is to bring them from the frying pan to the fire.
07:23 -  And you will be eternally embarrassed when you will learn that you have brought them to the vortex of violence and to inescapable devastation. In your well-meaning intention, but because your theology is confused, there's going to be a consequence in death for those who might have survived. Because there's a greater place of safety in the nations. I will shift you through all the nations. You'll be hearing that from us in these days.
07:49 -  So here I'm saying we'll have to say this. The issue of our perspective is the issue in the last analysis of life and death. So in 40 years of the faith, we have come to a time where what one believes and what one expects and how one acts out of that expectation now is the issue of life or death for Jews. And that's why we contend so strongly with these guys. Your well-meaning intentions will kill Jews if you're going to bring them to the very vortex of violence.
08:20 -  You would be better off investing your time, energy and funds in providing places of escape and refuge in the nations. However unhappy anti-Semitism will pursue Jews in the nations, they'll be uprooted in flight. But there's a greater prospect of survival and salvation than to bring them to that very little piece of real estate where the violence will be overwhelming and less prospect of survival.
08:50 -  Because they're even saying Israel is the place of greatest safety. Are you for real? Because you have a view of prophecy that is completely untenable. You even think that the Nazi holocaust taking place in Europe and Germany is the fulfillment of Jeremiah 31 and the Olivet Discourse where Jesus says, flee from Jerusalem, pray that it doesn't come on this night or flee to the hills.
09:20 -  Clearly the context is Israel, not Germany. Even if there's some future in Israel for which Jews will be quite the fleet. We're not talking about a little flim flam here. This is not the luxury of just one opinion or another.
09:38 -  This is the issue of life or death predicated on how you perceive the prophetic word. And what is God's provision to give us a view that is his own is the prophet himself. Now the fact really gets into the fire.
09:57 -  Our belief is that God gives to those who hold the office of prophet a view of prophetic scripture that is not given to others. So whom we regard as prophets will very much determine what we will believe from them. Tom Hess, I don't even want to mention names in Israel, is now called the prophet.
10:20 -  This guy is now called the prophet. Mike Evans is now a prophet. But Art Katz, well, flaky, and devious, and missing the mind of the Lord, because he has an apocalyptic view of coming devastation and even the eclipse of the present state of Israel.
10:40 -  We cannot consider that. So in order not to consider that, we have to reject not only the statement but the man who makes it. So there's a real contingency over the issue of prophetic identity, because that will be the key to what we want to believe in God's provision.
11:00 -  So in my last conversation with leaders in Israel who have been opposed to me, one of the points was, Art, when you speak, you say, I'm not offering you an opinion. I'm offering you a perspective in keeping with my office.
11:18 -  Well, we don't like to hear that, because it puts us under obligation to recognize you prophetically, and that sounds to us egotistical and vain. Do you have to make that implication? They think I'm making it because I'm on an eco trip, but I'm making it because this is not an issue of opinion.
11:36 -  This is an issue of truth that will affect either life or death of thousands. And so we need to have a perspective grounded in God by those who are charged with the responsibility of conveying a view of the future as God himself sees it, for a prophet is a seer and the mouthpiece for God.
11:59 -  So for the first time, though we talked about the fivefold ministries, and yes, we approve, but we're deficient and defunct when we come to identifying, in fact, prophet and apostle. And yet that could be an issue of life or death for many.
12:19 -  For example, I often say that the desert will bloom as a rose. Many Christians would prefer that through irrigation rather than through supernatural provision. Think on that. Why would Christians themselves shrink from the acknowledgement
12:34 -  and even the desire of a supernatural intervention that will glorify God? Why do they prefer to see the same thing brought humanly? What is it about God and his supernaturalness that offends even Christians?
12:49 -  That will affect how they perceive end time things. They can't conceive of a God who will come down with wrath and judge. That the supernatural is itself an offense, that God will intervene in time and in history
13:05 -  and in nations through judgment is a view that is offensive. We would rather, and I've accused Jews of this. That's why they're always politically minded.
13:17 -  If there's going to be change, it will come through some political, social, humanly wrought thing. Even the Messianic age will come through human betterment rather than the actual coming of a messiah. A supernatural revealing, an apocalyptic revealing of God and his son.
13:36 -  The church is God's appointed salvific agency for Jewish survival and salvation. And it is not in the right place of understanding or anticipation. It will have failed in its mandate and calling.
13:52 -  Now what has been the fate and the destiny of every man historically who has spoken of impending judgment for Israel? They've been stoned. Men do not want to hear an unwelcome message.
14:06 -  And the way to remove the message is to remove the man. So then what kind of church ought we to be if we're called to this proclamation? We have to, what's the word, gird our loins and know that we're going to experience rejection, anger, and perhaps worse.
14:29 -  We'll be looked upon as a serious threat to ecumenical intention of religion and society because of our narrow insistence on this apocalyptic scenario and a church that is apostate and seeks for a humanistic resolution. And so they will kill us and claim to do in God's service.
14:52 -  So we're not talking about idol questions, but again the issue of the cross. It's remarkable that nothing more reveals the issue of the cross than the issue of Israel. It brings it right into the face of the consideration of the church.
15:07 -  And I have said publicly, any view of Israel that does not bring with it the requirement of the cross and of suffering is a false view. And that's why Christians will prefer a feast of tabernacle, planting trees, harmless innocuous activity. That does not cost, but it doesn't save either.
15:28 -  So how ought we to pray for the church ourselves that you might receive a perspective that needs to be communicated in the localities where you are and to set in motion actual preparation for Jewish rescue if you believe the scenario that the scriptures indicate that is yet future. So I'll begin with prayer. You could at least say amen.
15:56 -  Lord, put a little iron in our souls because we're cowards and instinctively our flesh covets an easier answer. Another kind of scenario that we can either say, well, this has taken place already. We needn't fear this or we will not be here when it does take place.
16:18 -  And my God, what an eternal shame to learn that we erred because of our cowardice, that our moral nature made us to establish a certain line of ideology and doctrine and thought that would justify a view that saves us and leaves Jews in the lurch to perish.
16:40 -  And we learned this morning from David that his great fear was shame. He wanted to be saved from shame and he wanted the whole council of God and the law and the precepts of God that he might walk in the way because he could not contemplate that he would have to suffer eternal shame.
16:59 -  What will people suffer who have encouraged Jews to Israel as the place of safety when it's the place of devastation because their theology was askew will be shame because they did not know as they ought to know who have said to us, God will never do that again. They'll not suffer again.
17:18 -  He's not going to bring Jews from Russia and Ethiopia and then allow them to be devastated. I said, who are you to tell God what he's going to do? What would you have said about the Nazi Holocaust and the six million Jews and the Anne Franks that were taken up?
17:32 -  Would you say God will never do? What would you say about the destruction of 70 A.D. by the hundreds of thousands, the millions in captivity, the whole destruction of Zion where Jews perished on top of the temple because they thought it was inviolable.
17:47 -  God will not allow its destruction. His name is there. The greatest vanity and presumption is for us to say what we think God will do and not do. What does his word say? How far will he go in his jealousy for the things that pertain to his eternal glory?
18:09 -  How far has he gone with us? And can we recognize his dealings and his judgments with us for the shaping of our eternal destiny so we can better understand it for Israel and for the nations? So Lord, save us, help us, my God.
18:28 -  We ask for that iron in our soul. We ask for a prophetic disposition that is true, that is able to see, able to bear apocalyptic expectations, knowing that that's not God's last word. His last word is mercy. But what is mercy excepted issues out of devastation and loss.
18:51 -  So we don't know you Lord as we ought. And that ignorance and selfish posturing comes up in the views that we choose to hold and argue. So my God, teach us in these days, and more than teach us, give us a character like David
19:11 -  that will not flinch or balk from hard things, that can bear hard truth, that can suffer expectancy of a painful kind, knowing that the end thereof is the restoration of the nation, the coming of its king, and the glory of his kingdom. Thank you Lord. Oh bless us in these days, my God, we pray.
19:31 -  Make us prayer for little wonder that the enemy this morning sought to drown out your voice and to dull the saints and to miss what we were about. And nearly succeeded because we made room somehow in the error of our own souls
19:51 -  and our attitudes that we were allowing our minds to think in the privacy of our own minds, as if he was not seeing and did not know. So Lord, deal with us. We love your instruction, but we want to be shaped also in the character of God.
20:13 -  That Davidic nature that you showed us this morning, that does not flinch, but loves the truth and hates every false appearance. Even though the ones that are so calmly and that we would like to believe,
20:28 -  Israel will make it, they'll pass through this time of trouble, God is not going to allow them. So we thank you Lord. We're on divine course even tonight. Seal and put into our hearts what you will.
20:44 -  Thank you Lord. Wake us early to seek your face for the unfolding of your heart and mind in these days. That we might align ourselves with you in truth. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen.