Touching the Jewish Pathos

00:00 -  If I have any thought at all, it would be to read something of the commentary on Psalm 47 in this Orthodox Jewish volume. It's not an interpretation with which we would find ourselves in agreement on every verse. They have unusual ways of seeing and saying, and we would probably find ourselves in some points of disagreement in things that we think are issues of doctrine.
00:33 -  But what I would love to communicate, if it's the Lord's heart, is something of the sense of the spirit of this people, something of that quotient that requires our understanding of pathos. I'm thinking to myself, is that a word that I can even define? Pathos, P-A-T-H-O-S.
00:58 -  If we have only a clinical respect or appreciation for Jews, we're yet missing it. There's a sense of identification. There has to be a sense of pathos, something of what we intuit or know of the long history of this people, their suffering, their judgments, their exile, their calamities, and even to know that there are future calamities coming,
01:31 -  for which they have little or any anticipation that will eclipse the suffering even of the Nazi Holocaust. So we would take something from the Lord to touch our hearts with a sense of pathos for this people, because I think that we're called to a special relationship with them.
01:54 -  They're not just another ethnic minority that require our attention. They represent something very deep in the heart of God from the beginning as a people chosen, a peculiar treasure unto himself, called to be a witness to him among all the nations.
02:15 -  They were called to demonstrate God by the quality of relationship that was uniquely theirs to which they were called by him, who brought them out of slavery, who made them distinguished patriarchs, who saw them through a 40-year wilderness trek with Moses and the great adventures of faith through which most of them stumbled and fell,
02:39 -  the entry into the land and the whole rise of the nation, the advent of monarchy with Saul and finally David, the golden age of Israel, the psalmist, David himself the greatest, the sweet singer of Israel. There's something that we need more to swim in and luxuriate in than to critically or clinically analyze.
03:09 -  So I'm coming from an environment where for many of these people the only value of Israel or her history is that it provides types and shadows for us. We might more fully appreciate the New Testament fulfillment for which their experience was a foreshadowing.
03:30 -  They had only the shadow, we have the fulfillment. Well, I mean, that's true, but it's not the whole truth. And nearly to see them as providing us an illustration and not something in themselves,
03:46 -  deserving of our attention, our affection, our esteem and our desire for their redemption, their salvation, and the fulfillment that they're calling is merely to misuse them. Something has got to happen in the church that is the church with regard to this people
04:05 -  with whom we are called to a particular kinship above any other people and all the more and especially in their unbelief and in their apostasy. Remember that Paul said, have they stumbled that they should fall?
04:21 -  Is God finished with them? That was the question that the Roman church was bringing to the apostle. Can we now look upon them as passé?
04:30 -  They've had their time and they've shot it. And that we now are called to inherit their promises and to take up their destiny and their call. Paul answers in the most stringent language that was available to him that defies even English translation.
04:47 -  We read in our Bibles and Romans 11, God forbid, Paul says, that you should think that. Perish the thought that you should think that God is permanently finished with this people. They have only stumbled.
05:01 -  He implies it's only a momentary fall, but that there's a reason for it beside their judgment. And that is that through their fall, salvation has come to the Gentiles so as to move them to jealousy. That's the first statement, the first sounding of a great mystery that requires a symphonic accompaniment.
05:28 -  There needs to be a Mozart or a Beethoven who can give an appropriate musical backdrop to the great theme that is being struck by the apostle Paul. And that theme moves in and out through the movements until it comes to a great crescendo and climax. Paul is sounding the theme. They have not been permanently put away.
05:58 -  But they have been set aside that through their fall, salvation could come to the Gentiles. I don't know if you appreciate how great a fact that is. It was so uncommon a fact that it required a trance for Peter to be instructed that what he thought was the salvation of the Jews exclusively is now made available to Gentiles also.
06:22 -  So unprecedented, so unprecedented that in Ephesians Paul calls it a mystery that was concealed and hidden from times past and now being revealed. That Gentiles who were far off without God and hope in the world are brought nigh by the blood of Israel's Messiah into the covenants hopes and promises of Israel and even into the commonwealth of Israel itself. So Paul from the very beginning announces that the church now that has obtained this wonderful privilege and the space that has been built for it by the breaking off of natural branches is not just to enjoy the luxury of this new salvation,
07:02 -  but that there's a purpose for them in it beyond their own blessedness and salvation, namely to move them to salvation. We are called to an inexorable, inseparable destiny with this people that they without us can never be made complete except that we fulfill this as a mandate, they remain broken off, they remain cast away. But Paul says if the falling away of them has been the blessing of the Gentiles, what shall their return be but life from the dead? Language that is so extravagant that you could hardly imagine what their return would be.
07:46 -  Because how much more will the blessedness to them be when they are grafted back into their own roots who are called to be a nation of priests and a light unto the world of which Paul says in Romans 11 again that the gift and calling of God is irrevocable. Once given, it's never taken back. No matter how much they have blown it, no matter how little they appreciate it, how little that they are even aware that they have such a calling, how little they even desire its fulfillment, it will be fulfilled. It is irrevocable. It is without repentance, which means that if it's going to be fulfilled from a people who have no disposition to fulfill it or even to know of it, it will have to be a supreme climax of God's own ability and power to perform it.
08:41 -  So that for Israel to come in to her destiny which has not been altered despite her falling away will require the greater demonstration from God than if it were a nation waiting for its return. Anyone who has been to Israel or is in contact with modern Jewish life knows that there are few, if any, modern Jews who have any sense of this at all. In fact, if you would take a poll, they would say even today in Israel, we want to be like all other nations. Don't hock us. Don't tell us we have a special destiny. We don't want to be chosen.
09:18 -  Chosen for us has only meant suffering. We don't want to be that conspicuous. We just want to be like all other nations and succeed and be the Hong Kong of the Middle East. Go on and have our life. Don't give us all of this. Don't look at us when they kind of expect and say we don't deserve it. Therefore, if there's to be a fulfillment with a reluctant and an unwilling people, how much greater the testimony not only of God's mercy to insist that they come in to a destiny that they oppose in their own ignorance, but how much greater is his power to obtain it.
09:58 -  Because he says that the deliverer will come out of Zion and take transgression from Jacob according to the covenant that I have made with them as it is written. And I say to the church, if we have no other reason to be jealous for the fulfillment of this mystery, then the glory of God that comes by the fulfillment of his word, his promise, and his covenant, that's enough reason for us. Because if he should fail in the covenant that he has made with them according to what is written, what then shall we say of the covenant that he has made with us? How confident can we be in it?
10:39 -  And what kind of a God is it to make covenants as it is written and to be unable to fulfill them by very definition makes him a non-God. The issue of Israel is the issue of God, is the issue of the glory of God. And that's why Paul ends his remarkable statement in Romans 9 through 11.
11:00 -  Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God, who has been his counselor, for of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory forever. So I'm speaking to you, dear potential or present young ministers, that if this eludes you, you are robbed from one of the most salient dimensions of understanding and jealousy and thought and disposition of heart that will relegate you to the ministerial dustbin. You'll just become a hackneyed functionary, but to be taken up with the genius of this mystery and to drool over it, because it's the issue of God's glory forever, according to the words of the chief apostle Paul, is to be inflamed, is to take something into your spirit and into your being that not only affects your understanding of the Jew,
12:03 -  understands your, affects your understanding of the church, affects your understanding of God, it affects everything. Everything is touched and everything is transported and everything is transcended when the dimensions of the glory of this great drama between the church and Israel comes into your spirit. The church today is, what shall I say, is existing beneath the intention of God. It's a commonplace. It's predictable. It's, what was the word from this morning?
12:36 -  A banal, predictable. If you know what you're going to get, you're not going to get much. It's become an institutional thing of a self-serving kind for which most of its energy is directed to its own self-perpetuation. It has missed the glory of God and it has produced a generation or generations that have lost even the sense of that glory who no longer live in any expectation that is to be seen or touched or to be made manifest, let alone that they themselves as the church ought to be the vehicle to which God's glory comes in the earth.
13:16 -  And do not realize that the terrible toll taken in the world in terms of drug addiction, sexual abuse, crime, a whole generation of young people that are freaked out is more than in any other way to be explained by the absence of this visible and demonstrable glory in the earth. There's something wanting. It's the glory of God that's supposed to fill the earth in such a way that even the unbelieving are touched by a sense of it as it issues from one agency only, the church. That's why the St. Paul says, unto him be glory in the church. And I want to say flat out, after 38 years in the faith and laboring all over the world, if this issue of Israel as mystery is omitted from the consideration of the church, it is if so facto, eliminated as a prospect to exhibit that glory.
14:17 -  It necessarily must come down and become something institutional, something ceremonial, something that panders to the needs of men and performs programs, weddings, marriages, funerals, et cetera, et cetera. I hope, I don't know how I'm sounding and coming off. I had not even meant to say any of this. I'm surprised to find that you can have a vehemence in my spirit to communicate it. But I think if you'll not think me exaggerating, every defunct thing about our present Christendom, Christianity, can in the last analysis be traced back to the loss of this vision and this sense, this mystery and this glory. The issue of the Jew, the issue of Israel is central to the fulfillment of all of God's apostolic and prophetic fulfillment, messianic fulfillment. And yet it's a mystery. We cannot deduce it intellectually. We cannot by a concordance of mental labor come to some sense of it.
15:22 -  It requires the work of the spirit. As I said to a recent brother there in Canada who gave a marvelous statement of the phenomenon of the body of Christ, the church, and making of the Jew and Gentile wonder mass excellent. But dear brother, you have still fallen short of the glory. You have omitted the mystery. And as we were talking about it today, the mystery is not to be expected from teachers. The mystery is so foundational, it can only be communicated by foundational men, apostles and prophets. And so we have suffered the want of the revelation for the want of these men. And what we need earnestly to be praying for is that those who are called to these foundational ministries would be established and that they themselves don't grow on trees but need an environment conducive both to their discovery and to their nurture and to their loving encouragement to come into a fullness of their own ministry of call.
16:29 -  And anyone who has had to live alongside, for example, a prophet who has this call and knows him in his earlier history knows what a vexation such men can be, how much of a trial and a difficulty and they're in the flesh, they're in the spirit, they're in, they're out, they speak at the wrong times, they blunder, they don't come fully formed. They come as an embryonic thing that needs to grow, have opportunity to express itself in a fellowship and a community of believers that will not shoot it down, that recognizes the call and encourages the brother in it and even brings a corrective and loving word by which he himself can distinguish when he has lapsed into himself and when he's in fact beside himself speaking for God and by God. So we're in something together of a remarkable kind.
17:27 -  But the thing that's on my heart, the mystery will always elude us if we have not a disposition to receive the revelation of it by the spirit. And that requires something from us as hearers that for the want of a better word I would call a pathos toward Israel and toward the Jew. Some sense of the historic suffering, some sense of the tragedy of their failed call, some sense of what the rejection of Christ has meant for a people who have been cast out of their own land and have been thrown into exile to the diaspora, to be an alien people in the nations of the world where they have historically always been necessary and must be suspect by their very difference.
18:16 -  I have paid for that, particularly in Europe and in so-called Christian nations in Easter seasons when the cry of Christ killer comes up again by those who are only nominally Christian and are really unregenerate Gentiles and think that the death of Christ was a tragedy inflicted by the Jewish nation for which indeed they are suffering exile. But add to the sufferings in a way that God does not intend, perhaps goes beyond. And so there's been a terrible insecurity, a threat to life, a haunting fear that no matter what measure of comfort we may have found in the exilic places into which we have been carried, have our heads on comfortable pillows, how long will it be before we find ourselves with our head again on a stone like Jacob?
19:08 -  And death being again imminent. One of my greatest shocks as a history teacher was to stand before a generation of students, this is now 30 years or more ago, and to find out that they were born after the time and had not the faintest knowledge of what the word holocaust meant. Some of them had not even heard of it.
19:34 -  And I'm stuttering and gasping because it's so central a tragedy in modern times. And here's a whole generation born after the event that have not the slightest comprehension of what it in fact meant, what it took, what devastation. What Jewish communities were so totally uprooted, particularly in Poland and in central Europe, that will never again have formation, that had antiquity, that had generations of history and tradition of the kind that we saw expressed in Fiddler on the Roof.
20:11 -  How many of you saw that? That's poignant, P-O-I-G-N-A-N-T. Someone is saying your vocabulary is too fancy.
20:21 -  Well, I'm encouraging the sale of dictionaries. Poignant. You remember the scene where again they're being threatened and one of the Yiddelach, one of the elderly Jews turns to the rabbi who's himself bent over somewhat emaciated.
20:37 -  Rabbi, is this not the time when the Messiah should come? Anybody remember that question? Oh, it's like a knife does a stab when that question is asked.
20:49 -  I forgot what his answer was. Well, not quite now, but he dodged and he hedged because how can they say the Messiah has not come in times of previous calamity? He's not likely to come now.
21:02 -  It's a faint and dismal hope that is ebbing away. There's something so sad that a people who are called to a messianic expectancy and out of whose brethren such a Messiah would come lose even their sense of what that coming represents and even the hope and the faith to expect it. So that up to the time of Hitler in Germany, Jews no longer anticipated any supernatural phenomenon of a Messiah sent or coming, but had translated it into believing that there will be a messianic age of justice and righteousness.
21:40 -  And it will come largely by the effort of well-meaning, civilized and educated men of the kind that Germans were who gave us Kant, K-A-N-T, the great philosopher and Wagner and Beethoven and poetry and literature, philosophy and ethics. And Germany was the leading statement of enlightened civilization virtually up until the time of Hitler and it had become the Jewish hope. Maybe you guys just have to ring me out.
22:17 -  And I can't share with you my experiences going into synagogues, the ruins of them, as for example in East Berlin, bombed out or burned out in Kristallnacht in November or October of 1938. On one night, synagogues throughout Germany were set afire and the word Kristallnacht means glass night because the glass windows were shattered throughout all these synagogues. Jews then were pummeled, beat up, killed, their properties confiscated.
22:53 -  And from that point on in 1938 to 1945, the number seven, which means completion, began the process of the Jewish solution with a solution to the Jewish problem that came through systematic annihilation. Do you know what it means to see the ruins of these synagogues today or to know that the supermarket where these Germans are moving their carts in a buying spree was once the location of the Jewish community of East Berlin? Or to go into the cemetery in those places where the tombstones were not flown over and to see on one side the inscriptions in Hebrew and on the other side the inscriptions in German.
23:36 -  And to read names like Katz and Komen and Meyer and Goldstein and all of the traditional historic Jewish names, there's something so melancholy to see the evidence of a life that was lived and now is no more. My writing is always something topical, but when I was in Berlin, I think the most recent visit, living in an apartment, staying in an apartment with friends that had been in the Jewish quarter of Berlin, I came back from a conference on Israel terribly grieved in my spirit for the sentimental and shallow way in which that conference was being conducted.
24:26 -  It was more a relief for Germans for a sense of guilt than it was any kind of value to the Jew. And I was so exercised, I came back to that apartment, but I sat down and I began to type something on true and false German repentance for the Jew. But alongside that, at the same time, I wrote something fictional that maybe in this very apartment where I was typing this up, a German Jew was living and a moment had come when he was waiting to hear the dreadful words
25:02 -  of the Gestapo or the Nazi brown shirts coming up the steps of this apartment building and knocking on his door. He was expecting it momentarily. He had only a few moments to decide what to do with mementos of the past, pictures of a wife now deceased or tickets to an opera which they had attended or favorite books that they had accumulated or records of things of that kind would be lost in a moment. And who is going to visit the wife's grave if he himself is taken?
25:39 -  And what would happen to his children? As if vicariously the Lord was allowing me to sense the terror of what that man was experiencing in a final moment waiting for the dread knock on the door, which indeed came. On another occasion on a train in Germany, I don't understand how the Lord did it, but it was exceedingly dark and I could not even make out the names of the stations into which the train came. I was on my way to a certain city, but I wasn't able to identify those towns that would have shown me my proximity to my destination.
26:21 -  And I felt alone in that train compartment and as if people were looking at me suspiciously, as if I represented something strange to them and even something offensive. What the Lord was doing for me was turning the clock back to experience of Jews in those 1930s when their fear was continuing with them, when they would be recognized or identified. If they were not wearing the yellow star on their coats or on their jackets, that was a condition for the immediate or soon destruction.
26:59 -  Now why was the Lord allowing me to feel that? When I finally got to my station and I was met on the platform by a Christian brother, it seemed that the station was extremely dark. I could hardly make out who that brother, if that was the brother indeed. I can't tell you how eerie and strange I was made to feel as the Lord moved me back in time to give me a sense of the pathos of Jewish life in Germany now past.
27:28 -  But the heck of it is this, it's coming again. There will come again a time of fear, a time of traveling with concealed identity, a fear of being discovered or identified as being a Jew and a terrible fate that will befall those that are found out. And Jews will be moving through the night in dark places in the kind of strangeness that I experienced that night.
27:55 -  This may be the first time that I've ever recalled this publicly, but what I'm appealing for and hoping and desiring, even before reading something of an Orthodox Jewish commentary on the psalm, is a sense of pathos in our Christian hearts. For if we will not have it for the Jew who have suffered in our generation and will yet suffer again, who are despised and hated by the powers of darkness, even in their unbelief, because they still represent God by virtue of their existence. And therefore they will be haunted and hunted unto extermination, so long as they represent a God who is not accessible to the hatred of nations and of men.
28:43 -  That hatred, that diabolical despising of God will be ventilated on that people, and equally in time also the Church. So if we will not have a pathos, an emotional, and I'm a man, as anyone who knows me can tell you, dead against sentimentality. I despise sentimentality and I'm certainly not encouraging it now.
29:13 -  But there is something valid in the realm of emotion that saves us from being nearly clinically correct and doctrinally right about a subject. It's a sense of empathy, it's a sense of mystery, it's a sense of these people, their long history, their tragedy, the million and a half of their children that died among the six million of the Holocaust. The deaths that are taking place now in Israel with the suicide bombers and all of these things, the horrendous intensification of the dilemma of Jewish life yet again.
29:51 -  For us to be indifferent to that not only spoils us with regard to the Jew, it spoils us, period. It renders us equally as insensitive to any area of need. If we have not a pathos for as valid an identification as God calls the Church to have with those whom he calls the least of these as brethren, how shall we have it for anyone?
30:18 -  If we don't have it, we need to search our souls and look to the Lord for a dimension that I think he intends as normative for the Christian Church. And that will take a little bit of homework on our part. A re-immersion into the Old Testament as not being passé but being as a vital book, that there's something distinctive about the Psalms that is not to be found in any of the other books of the Bible.
30:52 -  And that there's a sense of intimacy and the knowledge of God expressed by the psalmists that leave New Testament saints behind. And we ought to be jealous for the way in which the psalmist speaks of God and of hope and of jealousy for his name. That even when the psalmist is crying out because he's the object of persecution, which he need not have suffered if he were not in this kind of relationship with the Lord,
31:25 -  he's crying for God to see his plight and to answer, not just to affect his relief, but to bring honor to the name of God, that those who mock the psalmist and say, where is your God, will have their mock ended when he shows himself in power in behalf of the saints who suffer for his namesake. That is a precious literature and it's God's very provision to bring us into a sense of what has issued from that people historically.
32:03 -  What shall we say of the prophets? What shall we say of the patriarchs? What shall we say of Abraham our father? And Paul in 1 Corinthians 10 speaking to Gentiles, Greeks, about that we are baptized into the cloud and into the sea as was our fathers before us unto Moses. He tells Gentile readers to look upon the generation of Israel following Moses through the sea and the cloud as being our fathers.
32:39 -  That we are linked with them, that this is not some mere objective truth that we acknowledge, but for which we sense a real identity or an identification. Our fathers passed through the sea and through the cloud even as we. They were baptized unto Moses, we are baptized into Christ. But the parallels are remarkable and we have a kinship with them. We ought to have a sense of that kinship.
33:07 -  Enjoying the Old Testament and not as something that only provides types and shadows, but as a vital literature that gives us a sense of God by the people who knew him and were called, had the privilege of Sinai and the coming down of the law, their own horrific idolatry of the being fed by manner through 40 years of wilderness experience. All of that is unique to one people only, this people. We need to have or ought to have an appreciation for then the history, the distinctive experience in God, which for most part is lost to the consciousness of modern day Jews.
33:58 -  You'll never see or rarely see a reference except in a portion of the Jerusalem Post that is devoted to a commentary on the passage of scripture appropriate for that week. Otherwise, most of the writers are totally secular in their consideration. None of them seem to have read in the Psalms where what is your horse in that day, but it will be nearly an instrument by which you will flee. What is the confidence in the flesh of your own arm and in your own sword? It's not by your strength that you're going to obtain security in the land, but you would think that if ever there was an occasion to find again the wisdom of the psalmists for their present dilemma, it would be now.
34:40 -  But there is really if ever any acknowledgement or such expressions at all. Maybe we're the ones that need to bring that sense to them that we have such an identification with those psalmists. We stand in that kind of relationship with their God that the psalmist describes and that we can communicate that reality by what has been made real for us. What is all the more impressive when it is exhibited to them through Gentiles is the last place that they expect to find any evidence of their God.
35:15 -  But when it shines forth out of Gentile faces, it is a powerful and incontestable testimony of the reality of God. That's how I got saved. I saw the light, I saw the glory of the people Israel in the light that lightens Gentiles. They're being picked up off the side of the road as a disillusioned, cynical, ex-Marxist radical communist by believers who had pity on me standing at the side of the road in the drizzle and in the rain, living for 14 months with what I carried on my back.
35:49 -  A totally dejected modern man whose Gods have failed, the Gods of ideology and philosophy and culture, has something prompted them to pick me up. A remarkable revelation to an unbelieving man of a reality that I've seen for the first time issuing out of Gentile faces. Maybe it's wrong even to say Gentile faces, non-Jewish faces, but to say Gentile is somehow to miss it because a believer who is in God and in the realm of spirit has transcended those, what's the name of these?
36:29 -  who have transcended their Japheth-like characteristics and are exhibiting something of the sense and personality of Shem. When we see a Semitic dimension coming out of a supposed Gentile, it's awesome. And this is more than mechanical believing or doctrinal correctness can obtain.
36:54 -  It requires real relationship with God, a real nurturing, a cultivation of the Lord in the sense of himself that comes in devotional times, in communion, in the Psalms, in the Scriptures. Shall I just read you a little bit out of this commentary? Look at Psalm 47. You would think how much can be said of a Psalm as brief as that.
37:18 -  It seems so self-explanatory and yet I wish I could have the time and the ability to show you the kind of commentary that comes from Jewish sources that has as its advantage generations of rabbis and sages that have preceded it who have passed on a certain line of tradition and commentary of a Talmudic or rabbinical kind that has a depth in it that is absent from our own Christian commentates.
37:56 -  For example, the reference to trumpet opens up the Orthodox commentator to the whole use of the shofar, particularly in Rosh Hashanah, the beginning of the ten days of war that culminate with Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement, which will come this year in the early to midweek September. It begins with the sounding of a trumpet in every synagogue to bring the Jewish congregation to consider the condition of their own souls.
38:31 -  And there are different kinds of blasts that are made on that trumpet, staccato, longs, wailing sounds, short, brief, explosive. They are skilled in that kind of shofar and the various way in which it is sounded has a meaning that corresponds to it. This is entirely lost to us, of course, as Christians. If we even see such an instrument or we just blow it, we blow it.
38:59 -  But evidently there are even Hebrew words that designate the different kinds of blowing and use to which that shofar can be put. There's only one reference to trumpet, I believe, in the psalm. It gives their commentators ample opportunity to luxuriate and to develop the significance of trumpet.
39:20 -  I'll just give you a little sample. One of the rabbis observes that it's customary to sound the trumpets during a royal coronation ceremony. This is what the nations will do when they appoint God as their sovereign.
39:33 -  You'll hear it in other places here. There's an expectancy that the salvation of Israel is not exclusively for Israel, but must come to all the nations of the earth. That the praise of God will go out from the uttermost corners of the earth,
39:50 -  so that though they themselves are the lonely guardians of this faith, they expect that the nations will one day share in it. Even those nations that have historically persecuted and oppressed themselves will one day also come before that God and sound a victorious note of triumph on the shofar as their own statement of the celebration
40:13 -  that they have taken as their sovereign God, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. Another statement is that David's harp was related to the Messianic shofar and future redemption. Every part of the ram which Abraham sacrificed instead of his son Isaac on Mount Moriah was used for good purpose.
40:33 -  Its sinews were fashioned into hopstrings for David. Its hide became the belt which girded Elijah's loins. Its left horn was sounded on Mount Sinai.
40:42 -  Its right horn will be sounded by the Holy One. Blessed be he at the time of the future redemption. Isn't that a remarkable statement?
40:53 -  To say that this people is under the law or that they have no vision or sense of God's redemption in the future is to caricature the condition of Jews, which is easy then for us to relegate them to a distance as not having any relevance for ourselves. We need to see that even in their spiritual blindness there is a haunting sense of a dimension of God
41:23 -  and an end time expectancy that affects all nations that is lost even to the church. How much richer would we be if we had the advantage of a certain relationship and fellowship with this people even in our present distance with them because they have rejected the Messiah whom we have received
41:42 -  and yet we are able somehow to communicate, to have some kind of respectful relationship and an appreciative relationship that will open their eyes to a new way to consider us because to them a Gentile is only an object to be feared.
41:58 -  He's an issue of suspicion because when will the bottom drop again? Well, though they're polite to us one day, the next day they'll be skinning us alive. But to see a Gentile that takes an interest in them, has even read their literature,
42:13 -  understands something of their commentary, appreciates their sense of things, doesn't agree with it, who can say that the ram that was slain in exchange for Isaac that from its body the strings were made that became David's heart?
42:29 -  I mean this is totally a Jewish speculation, it's totally romantic, it's totally idealistic, it's totally mythical, but it says something about a people who believe something like that and think that it may well be.
42:47 -  Talks here about the nations in verses 1-3, all you nations join hands, call out to God with a cry of joy Yes, for Hashem means the name, Hashem, they will not say God, somehow it's disrespectful even to write the word God and so you'll find in orthodox commentaries
43:12 -  they will either say Hashem which means the name, the polite equivalent for Yahweh or Jehovah when the four consonants come up, Yad Hei, Vod Hei, which we have interpreted as Jehovah or Yahweh because nobody knows how those four consonants are to be sounded
43:30 -  and it's only in more recent times that vowel pointings have even been added by scribes to the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet and so Jews were required to memorize how the words were to be sounded and what they would mean
43:48 -  until the advent of the use of vowel markings that you could know as you say Ah or Eh with God for Hey So only the high priest knew the name of God and sounded it only once in the year on Yom Kippur when he went into the holiest place of all with the blood of a sacrifice
44:12 -  and remember they had bells on the skirt of his garment that if they did not hear those bells sounding as he moved about they could well suspect that he had not made an appropriate atonement for his own soul
44:24 -  and was killed in the holy place because he came in to the presence of God unsanctified and they would have to pull him out by ropes but they knew that the blood was being put on the mercy seat to atone for the sins of Israel
44:39 -  and that only the high priest knew the name All we could know are the four consonants Yod Hei Va Tei something like Y-H-W-H
44:54 -  which could be sounded as Yahweh, Jehovah, Jehovah but the orthodox will not attempt to say the name because of the high respect for the holiness of God and I can tell you dear saints that one of the early anguishes of my soul
45:12 -  as a young believer in the Pentecostal church was to hear the frequency and the casual way in which the name of Jesus was sounded on everyone's lips it made me just involuntarily be chafed
45:30 -  because of the frequency and the casual way in which the name of the Lord was employed as if he's buddy buddy I was an atheist, I had never come out of an orthodox background
45:42 -  but I had some kind of instinctive respect that you don't become that familiar with God over this name and this is a dimension that the orthodox Jews preserve but it is lost to our own Christian consciousness
45:57 -  and they themselves will be offended when we say the Lord, the Lord, the Lord, the Lord this, the Lord that and it's true the Lord this and the Lord that but we speak it with such a casual air that it grates upon them
46:08 -  they're not accustomed to that kind of familiarity with God it seems to them disrespectful and for that reason they can't believe that God came down in the form of his son
46:20 -  and lay aside his deity and came as an infant although unto us a child is born and unto us a son is given we do not know those scriptures
46:30 -  and the idea that God would come down out of heaven and into a profane earth and among sinners is totally offensive to the elaborate respectful sense that most Jews have of God so what do they do with Jesus then who ate with sinners and was accused of being a winegiver and a glutton
46:51 -  that's their difficulty and yet the Bible says your king shall come to you lowly and meek so we need to understand some of the cultural and religious difficulties
47:05 -  that Jews would have in considering our Christ and their Messiah because it contradicts their historic experience with Christians and what they understand of God as lofty and distant
47:20 -  and a God whose eyes are too holy to look upon sin let alone to come down into the earth in the midst of sinners and let alone to die as a sinner for sinners in a place outside the holy city
47:34 -  in the garbage dump as a criminal and you're saying that that's their Messiah and their very God can you see it's as if God is saying
47:45 -  I'm not making this easy for you it's every difficulty that you can imagine in trying to communicate the faith
47:53 -  but Paul says I am not ashamed of the gospel why does he have to say that because by its very nature it is offensive to the modern mind
48:03 -  it's offensive to human intellect it's offensive to Jewish religious categories but Paul says I'm not ashamed of it despite that
48:12 -  because it is the power of God of the salvation to those that believe the Jews first and also the Greeks listen dear saints
48:21 -  the thing that distinguishes the church at the end of the age is its virtual total involvement with the Jewish community in the last days
48:33 -  as being the expression of God's mercy to a people who if they do not receive it will perish
48:41 -  when Jesus was asked what are the signs of the end and of your coming in Matthew 24 and Luke 21
48:49 -  he talked about persecution he talked about cosmic disturbances about stars falling out of their place
48:56 -  he talked about upsets in the earth but he said that there's a time of trouble coming for the nation
49:04 -  such as it has never before known since its inception and will never again know and that it will exceed any trouble that they had previously known
49:14 -  and accept that that time be cut short no flesh will survive but for the elect's sake that time will be cut short
49:22 -  I believe that he's speaking of yet something future called the time of Jacob's trouble and if it will exceed therefore the Nazi holocaust
49:31 -  that took six million lives what can we expect in the attrition of this time of Jacob's trouble
49:38 -  at whose door we now stand I think John Parsons was with me in Auschwitz was that you John or
49:48 -  Simon and we looked out at this Birkenau three kilometers away from Auschwitz
49:56 -  the modern factory of extermination and all that remains are the foundations of these many barracks
50:05 -  in which these Jews were kept up to the time of their gassing and their annihilation the gas chamber itself was destroyed by the Germans
50:12 -  before the onrush of the Russians as well as the crematoria but you could look out for acres
50:18 -  and see the rudiments and the foundations of these barracks where these Jews lived in the coldest weather
50:25 -  without insulation with one spigot of water in a barrack that would house
50:31 -  a couple of hundred people living on roof boards I mean it's something
50:37 -  and Simon said well if you believe that there's going to be a greater rate of annihilation
50:45 -  that is yet future how can that take place in a period less than the Nazis took
50:51 -  to exterminate six million except that there be camps of this kind set up throughout the world wherever
50:58 -  there are concentrations of Jews to be found and I believe that that is something that we will see
51:06 -  systematic places for Jewish annihilation in our generation and what will we do
51:13 -  with those who will have escaped it or are in flight from it if they come to the place where we are
51:19 -  and need to be taken in and given a measure of protection, security, hiding
51:25 -  and to feed them, to bathe them to instruct them of why it is that they're suffering again
51:31 -  in the same virtually within the same century a kind of thing that would be inconceivable
51:37 -  in modern times unless we function and perform that expression of mercy
51:45 -  I don't know that we'll see any Jewish survival at all and the issue of Jewish survival is the issue of the coming of the Lord
51:53 -  it's the issue of a Lord who is contained in the heavens waiting for the restoration
51:59 -  of all things spoken by the prophets since the world began mainly the restoration of Israel in the last days he will not come until they will say
52:06 -  blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord his coming is as king in Ezekiel 37
52:12 -  the valley of dry bones when the Lord raises them the balance of that chapter speaks of a David
52:18 -  that God would raise up to rule over them and rule over the house of a restored Israel
52:24 -  forever so we're not just talking about the survival
52:30 -  of an ethnic minority we're talking about the consummation of the age the coming of a king
52:36 -  the establishment of a kingdom in a redeemed nation a redeemed Zion
52:42 -  that the Lord shall go forth out of that Zion and the word of the Lord out of Jerusalem to all nations
52:48 -  and all nations shall come up to that redeemed people and city on the feast of Thebanakos the ingathering
52:54 -  to pay tribute and to honor the nation that the Lord now exalts having abasted and brought into a season
53:00 -  of remarkable suffering and chastisement the church
53:06 -  is God's agency for that survival that the redeemed of the Lord might return to
53:12 -  Zion with mourning and sighing fleeing away and everlasting joy upon their heads
53:18 -  but a church of what kind if it's only clinically correct
53:24 -  or untouched by Jewish suffering
53:30 -  no sense of identification no cathedrals no willingness to extend
53:36 -  ourselves, to put ourselves in a place of sacrifice for them that by which our lives will be
53:42 -  imperiled or threatened they will perish and I think I could say safely
53:48 -  there's very little expectancy of this scenario anywhere in the world
53:54 -  by even the most advanced and celebrated expressions of the church today
54:00 -  who oppose God and oppose his people their commentators say
54:06 -  those who deny God's reality entirely and attribute the entire creation to the
54:12 -  activities of celestial bodies and cosmic forces will realize that God is
54:18 -  the most high, the prime cause and first source of creation here are
54:24 -  unbelieving Jews that we have relegated as being spiritual darkness
54:30 -  who are saying to the secular unbelievers of our generation that they need to understand
54:36 -  that God himself is the prime mover in history that it's not accident in history
54:42 -  or aberrations or the movement of forces but that God himself is the author
54:48 -  of things that are taking place in time and history they have a sense of God
54:54 -  as the active agent in history and in the world which is more than many Christians have
55:00 -  who more subscribe to the time newsweek perspective that things happen because of
55:06 -  economic rising and falling because of the accident of this or this president or this dictator
55:12 -  but we do not see God implicit in history and the working out of his purposes
55:18 -  as much as these orthodox Jews see it who have been on the receiving end
55:24 -  of judgments that have come from God and believe that the nations will one day acknowledge
55:30 -  that there is only one God and that the God of Jacob and the God of Israel is both creator and coming king
55:36 -  if there's a Jewish people who believe that in their spiritual darkness
55:42 -  now, how is it we have no contact and no relationship with them at all
55:48 -  with whom we have a greater affinity of agreement in their rejection of Jesus
55:54 -  than we have with other Christians who subscribe to the correct doctrines but are totally at distance
56:00 -  from this kind of understanding and spirit who are our brethren
56:06 -  and one of the charges against me in Canada is when I quoted Jesus
56:12 -  in Matthew 25 if you have done this for the least of these my brethren you've done it unto me
56:18 -  and when man was offended that I dare use the word brethren to refer to Jews
56:24 -  as if the least of his brethren were Jews and I know, indeed that's what it does refer to
56:30 -  how do we know that? because the people to whom Jesus is speaking call him Lord
56:36 -  he's separating sheep from goats both of whom call Jesus Lord, when did we see you?
56:42 -  naked, thirsty, hungry and in prison so then who are the brethren if he is speaking that already
56:50 -  to those who call him Lord but those who have become the least and are moving through the nations
56:56 -  as exiles and as rejects the castaways of Israel
57:06 -  and yet he calls them brethren in their yet unstate condition and if he calls them that
57:12 -  what we to call them and how can we call them that unless there's a real sense
57:18 -  of identification with them even in their present unbelief because while we were yet sinners
57:24 -  he died for us and while they're yet sinners he's asking us to sacrifice for them
57:30 -  and perhaps die for them in our identification with them when we do so, we're not doing anything more
57:36 -  than revealing the nature of Christ himself exemplified one last time in history
57:42 -  by the attitude and conduct of a church toward a degraded despised and rejected people
57:48 -  to come to a condition like that would require something more than what we presently have
57:56 -  and it's God's desire that we begin consciously to move toward that
58:02 -  speaking about the unbelieving this commentator says these unbelievers claim that God no longer
58:08 -  cares enough to punish or reward there's no need to fear him this heresy will also be abandoned
58:14 -  in the future when everyone witnesses the awesome punishments which God inflicts upon those who defy him
58:20 -  these public punishments will serve as a warning to all
58:26 -  a sense of God and imminent judgment that will fall upon the God rejecting is more
58:32 -  clear with them than that which we are disposed to
58:38 -  understand or to express the demesianic era even if the nation seek to
58:44 -  repent and convert to Judaism they will remain under the authority of Israel
58:50 -  for the halacha the law stipulates converts are not accepted
58:56 -  during the days of Messiah because they are assumed to be insincere and attracted only by Israel's
59:02 -  rise to power converts can join our nation as equals only if they enter our ranks
59:08 -  when we are downtrodden and despised those who are willing to take part in our misery can later
59:14 -  share the fruit of our glory a remarkable statement in verse four and five where
59:20 -  the psalm speaks about the pride of Jacob which he loved they describe the pride
59:26 -  of Jacob as being the temple of the Lord this is the holy temple where God's spirit resides in
59:32 -  splendor the Jewish nation views the fact that God dwells in its midst with great pride
59:38 -  and sees the divine presence as its most remarkable advantage why does the psalmist
59:44 -  here refer to all of Israel as Jacob? because in his faces etch the
59:50 -  representation of all Israel and of all mankind these are poetic
59:56 -  literary imaginative statements
01:00:02 -  they are not hard and fast doctrine but they bespeak a certain
01:00:08 -  attitude and disposition of a Jewish people of which we ought to be mindful
01:00:14 -  and respectful after the world witnesses God's might for protecting Israel from
01:00:20 -  Gog and Magog everyone will realize that he truly possesses the power to shield those
01:00:26 -  who trust in him thus they will no longer deny God's omnipotence by asking
01:00:32 -  if God is truly all powerful how could he permit heathen to kill the martyrs? they will realize that although God
01:00:38 -  could have shielded the martyrs he wishes to grant them the incomparable privilege of sanctifying
01:00:44 -  his holy name show me that in any Christian commentary
01:00:50 -  that there is a distinction and a privilege to obtain martyrdom in order to honor
01:00:56 -  the name of Hashem to sanctify the name by the willingness to lay down your life in allegiance
01:01:02 -  to him you need not have paid if only you had become one of the boys and gone along
01:01:08 -  many Jews died refusing forced conversion
01:01:14 -  they were given the alternative either convert to Catholicism or
01:01:20 -  die and they chose to die but not at the hand of their oppressors so Jewish fathers
01:01:26 -  would take the lives of their children one by one as they were holed up in the synagogues
01:01:32 -  and outside with a raging mob crying out for their blood and slit their throats
01:01:38 -  kill their wives and then take their own lives now when the doors finally burst down all that they found as they found at Nisata
01:01:44 -  were the bodies of an entire Jewish community that had taken their own lives by their own hand
01:01:50 -  and did it in Kiddush Hashem sanctifying the name of the Lord
01:01:56 -  to be forcibly converted to a pagan and idolatrous religion which is the way
01:02:02 -  in which they saw so-called Christendom I'm not attempting to Judaize you
01:02:08 -  I'm only wanting by the grace of God trusting that this is the Lord
01:02:14 -  to touch your hearts in areas of consideration that I know the church as a rule
01:02:20 -  has not brought to the consciousness of its members is so effectually alienated
01:02:26 -  from the Jewish community that we see them only as a type or a shadow
01:02:32 -  or that they were the unfortunate ones who are under bondage of the law as if Paul denies
01:02:38 -  that the law is holy and just there's nothing intrinsically wrong with the law
01:02:44 -  what is wrong is man's inability to fulfill it and that it needs the grace of the lair giver himself to obtain
01:02:50 -  its righteousness the lair itself that is unrighteous
01:02:56 -  or unholy but we have in our summary way
01:03:02 -  in a cheap and shallow dismissal pushed it as if they were under the law well those under the law
01:03:08 -  exhibit a quality of life and respect and sanctity
01:03:14 -  that would put many of us to shame on my most recent trip to Israel on a Friday night
01:03:20 -  when I went out and spent an evening with the lady whose pictures are hanging on a wall here
01:03:26 -  and her husband whom I've known for 30 years we went to the Meir Shearim
01:03:32 -  the orthodox quarter of Jerusalem on a Friday night on a Shabbat evening
01:03:38 -  and I want to tell you dear souls it was an experience to see whole families together
01:03:44 -  on their way to shul the respect of the children of the parents
01:03:50 -  the sense of honor and to look in through the windows and to watch these men
01:03:56 -  dovening and praying with a high seriousness and an integrity and a devotion
01:04:02 -  that makes our charismatic equivalent shallow by contrast
01:04:10 -  and that's without the Holy Spirit that's just men in their piety
01:04:16 -  and their emotional sense of devotion to God and such a an attitude
01:04:26 -  and a posture that cannot help move us to envy I still remember
01:04:32 -  how precious an evening that was catching the sense of Jewish piety
01:04:38 -  and respect for God even in their what we would call unbelief I was only hoping that
01:04:44 -  some one of them would stop me and seek to evangelize me or communicate
01:04:50 -  their sense of God but I guess we looked like we were outside because I'm not wearing
01:04:56 -  the side curls I'm not wearing the yarmulke there's nothing about me
01:05:02 -  even the Jewish brother and his wife with me that would give any evidence that we are the kinds of Jews
01:05:08 -  with whom they could communicate I want to pray and I invite you also for a renaissance
01:05:14 -  for a birthing of a new interest in this
01:05:20 -  people who are still the apple of God's eye still the object of
01:05:26 -  his love and will be the object of his judgements and also the recipients of his mercy
01:05:34 -  and God intends a certain attitude and a relationship by us with them
01:05:40 -  that will not only redound to their benefit but to ours that will bring
01:05:46 -  dimensions of something to us that will enhance our faith our sense of God
01:05:52 -  our appreciation of the scripture and a sense of God's
01:05:58 -  heart for that people for promises yet to be fulfilled because
01:06:04 -  he will have mercy upon whom he will have mercy and he will elect whom he will elect
01:06:10 -  not because they qualified not because they deserve it but because in their
01:06:16 -  unbelief and in their alienation from God and in their rejection of his Christ
01:06:22 -  they are still the object of his mercy they give God an opportunity not to reveal
01:06:28 -  their merit but to reveal his character as nothing else can
01:06:34 -  serve the purposes of God even in their unbelief and they serve the purposes of God even in us
01:06:40 -  Lord mercy for us tonight
01:06:46 -  going out on a limb taking a chance of touching a subject
01:06:54 -  that if it's so much as spoken with a slight warp of
01:07:00 -  spirit or an ill chosen word can be construed as an invitation to
01:07:06 -  Judaize the church or to give a sanction to Jewish unbelief
01:07:12 -  as if somehow in that condition they had no need of our Christ
01:07:18 -  so Lord I'm asking that you would touch us in a new way
01:07:24 -  in a way that you intend for the church to be related and that somehow my God
01:07:30 -  we have not been encouraged to this and there have been significant dimensions
01:07:36 -  lost to us for the want of it and lost to them we are as distant from them my God
01:07:42 -  as the man and the moon their synagogues stand as an indictment to the church
01:07:48 -  for a failed relationship we have not sought them, we have not made them jealous
01:07:54 -  we have not earnestly pleaded for their salvation we have not sought to witness
01:08:00 -  we have been intimidated or alienated and have kept ourselves at a distance
01:08:06 -  we like our comfort zone to remain untroubled and prefer to be with those like ourselves
01:08:12 -  rather than take the risk of making contact and seeking fellowship with a people who are strange and
01:08:18 -  different and who may have a knowledge and an academic background or expertise
01:08:24 -  that would make our high school diploma background look shabby we reveal our insecurity
01:08:30 -  we are afraid to take the risk of faith to move out to them and to exhibit
01:08:36 -  a grace my God in which we boast saying it has come from you
01:08:42 -  we have not attempted to communicate the sense of yourself to them who even in their blindness
01:08:48 -  show a respect and an anticipation that humbles us so Lord I'm praying for the church
01:08:54 -  to consider to take hold of things that I myself have kept at a distance and have ignored
01:09:00 -  or deprecated and demeaned so Lord help us
01:09:08 -  to be aligned with you our heart with your heart our thoughts with your thoughts
01:09:14 -  our love with your love our mercy with your mercy and we might call this people
01:09:20 -  as you call them our brethren that we would have a great kinship with them in their
01:09:26 -  unbelief that we would have with some who call themselves Christian and subscribe to the right
01:09:32 -  doctrines but for whom we have no empathy no identification in spirit
01:09:38 -  and so Lord grant us an encouragement that when we return to our places
01:09:44 -  we will look for them in the location where we are for surely you have seen to it that
01:09:50 -  they are broadly distributed in every corner of the earth we have found them in
01:09:56 -  the most distant and remote places of Indonesia, Singapore there's not a place where we have been
01:10:02 -  where there's not been a synagogue or some minimal presence of Jews to stand as a challenge to
01:10:08 -  Christians of the mandate that yet waits to be fulfilled towards them
01:10:14 -  and if they're not presently where we are it will not be long before they're brought there by distress by
01:10:20 -  persecution and by flight Lord bless us tonight take my
01:10:26 -  most inadequate sharing and communicate something above
01:10:32 -  and through it that only you can bring through your spirit touch our hearts Lord
01:10:38 -  grant us a sense of pathos for this people their tragic history and the
01:10:44 -  calamity that is now already falling upon them and will come upon them wholesale, globally
01:10:50 -  worldwide we know that when you come two thirds of them will have
01:10:56 -  already perished and that their women will have been ravished these precious Jewish
01:11:02 -  girls will be at the mercy of these maddened Muslims delighting in the
01:11:08 -  opportunity to torment the Jewish community by the mistreatment of their defenseless women and girls
01:11:14 -  we saw what they did with Croatia and the
01:11:20 -  other nation there in the Balkans where rape became a policy of
01:11:26 -  systematic technique of war to break the morale of a people by an
01:11:32 -  insult to their women how much more will they take an exceeding delight in desecrating
01:11:38 -  the Jewish women of the land and where so ever
01:11:44 -  they'll have opportunity in the world in a soon coming hour Lord help us
01:11:50 -  bless us stir something by your spirit and I invite you to nullify anything that I have
01:11:56 -  said anything that I have quoted anything that I have prayed that is in so much as the slightest variation
01:12:02 -  variance with your own heart but where I have given expression however faultingly
01:12:08 -  to your heart force in a way in which it has never been presented before with regard to this people
01:12:14 -  I ask your spirit to witness it to our spirits and to say this is
01:12:20 -  the way walking in this open our understanding Lord birth something of a new kind
01:12:26 -  not to be expected to be found in Gentiles who yet bear the traces
01:12:32 -  of Jaffa people but show already the evidences of the God of
01:12:38 -  Sheba thank you my God