True Apostolicity 3

00:00 -  Thank you, Lord, for this occasion. May it be richly redeemed. May you have an opportunity to bear your heart, gracious God, and speak to our own. Let this be more than something informational. Let it be a word that performs a work in us who hear it. Thank you, gracious
00:24 -  God, for your precious watch-care and love. Your seriousness taught us as sons. May we respond appropriately. Thank you now, Lord. Bless this and perform all your will in it. We'll thank you and praise you. In Jesus' name, amen.
00:46 -  I've been on one theme, true apostolicity. Say, why don't you just say, true apostle? Apostolicity is more than apostle. Apostle is at the heart of it, but it goes far beyond what the apostle is. It's because his significance is so great, because what he is affects the church
01:11 -  that bears the name apostolic. What a man is as an apostle is what the church ought itself to be in its character and activity. Understand that? So if the apostle is false, what of the church that bears the same name? If the apostle is spurious, what of the church that is spurious?
01:36 -  So we have a tremendous responsibility to understand and to maintain true apostolicity, because it is the last resort. If we have toyed with things charismatic or New Testament-ish and made of that, a kind of merchandise and games playing, that's sad enough. But if we do the same
01:57 -  with this, there's no further recourse. This is it. And this is my great dread, that that possibility exists and is already in process of fulfillment. We know that the church in Revelation is complemented because it discerns those who say that they are apostles and are not. So evidently,
02:21 -  this is going to be an end-time factor. So if there are those that say that they are apostles and they are not, what of churches who say they are apostolic and are not? So I have in my heart this morning just to share a little episode or a little segment
02:38 -  out of the life of a chief apostle, namely Paul in 1 Thessalonians, that we can glean something from his life, from his character, from his activity, that gives us an insight into that which truly apostolic is.
03:03 -  So reading from the very beginning of that chapter, 1 Thessalonians, Paul, so vainness and sympathy to the church of the Thessalonians, in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to you and peace. We give thanks to God always for all of you making mention
03:20 -  of you in our prayers, constantly bearing in mind your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the presence of God our Father. Knowing, brethren, beloved by God, his choice of you, for our gospel did not come to you in word only,
03:37 -  but also in power and in the Holy Spirit, and with full conviction, just as you know what kind of men we prove to be among you for your sake. You also became imitators of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much tribulation with the joy of the Holy Spirit, so that you became an example
03:57 -  to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia, for the word of the Lord had sounded forth from you not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place your faith toward God has gone forth, so that we have no need to say anything, for they themselves report about us what kind of
04:17 -  a reception we had with you and how you turned to God from idols to serve, a living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven whom he raised from the dead, that is Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. Amen. I don't know of any book that is more susceptible to being misread
04:35 -  than the Bible. You just had a perfect example. I don't know what a true reading would be, but you didn't get it. There's such a tendency to gloss over the word of God as if we're reading Gone with the Wind and miss the mighty portent of all that is written there. Just to give you an
05:01 -  idea of what I mean, I'll start from the end of that chapter and work backward, looking at the last two verses, for they themselves report about us what kind of reception we had with you and how you turned to God from idols to serve, a living and true God.
05:16 -  Imagine speaking that so blithely and not recognizing what an enormous wrench that constituted. What did it mean for a pagan people, Greeks, in all that is intrinsic in the Greek mentality, with all of their panoply of Gods and mythologies, to turn from that to the living God?
05:39 -  The word wrench is hardly sufficient. I wish I could give you a sound effect. The enormous power that it took to turn men from idols to the living God, from their whole assortment of Gods and their mythology so dear to the Greek heart,
05:58 -  from their rationality, from their love of reason, from all that is celebrated in being Greek, in being Greek to that which is Hebrew. If you don't understand that, you're going to miss Paul, and you're going to miss what being apostolic means. What the power is that turns men from
06:17 -  things that are dead to things that are alive, from things pagan to things holy, from things humanistic to things Hebraic. You turn to God from idols to serve, not just merely acknowledge, but serve a living God. And Paul is very careful about his use of words. He's not one who is given
06:39 -  to flattery. He's incisive, he's sharp, his words mean what they say. These men did not just merely acknowledge a new deity, they served him. And as a matter of fact, if that acknowledgement is not expressed in serving him, it's not acknowledgement. Remember
06:58 -  what Elijah said to his own people, how long will you hold between two opinions? If God be God, serve him or follow him, not merely acknowledge him. So Elijah had an apostolic heart. He understood what the issues of truth are and would not be satisfied with anything
07:18 -  less. That's the marvel of this Thessalonian church. They turned from idols to serve the living God. Why? Because of the reception that we had with you. Everything rested on the acceptance of a single man who came bearing an ideology wholly offensive and opposed to all that can be
07:41 -  understood as Greek reckoning and mentality. I don't know if you know how formidable a thing it is to bear the message of the Gospel, how foolish a thing it is, how loathsome a thing it is, how contrary to reason and to all that men celebrate as rational and good. Why God could
07:59 -  not have gone overboard more to find something more calculated to offend human sensibility and intellect than the Gospel of Jesus Christ. That's why Paul speaks of the mystery of the Gospel. And one of the reasons that we don't have this kind of acceptance and our preaching of it does
08:16 -  not result in this kind of consequence is that for us it is not this kind of a mystery. It's hash. It's too over easy with bacon. It's commonplace. We've lived with it for so long. We've grown up with it. The mystery has not touched us. We've not been offended by it.
08:38 -  I marvel that you haven't. It was a struggle for me as a Jew coming out of a Greek background when I was first confronted by the Gospel. It was powerfully offensive to everything to which I had given my mind and heart and loyalty and had celebrated as value for 35 years.
08:58 -  Rightly has a German theologian said that true faith begins with the atheist thinks it ought to end, namely at the cross of Christ. That that pitiful wreck that hung limply on the cross, whatever you think of chick comics, the one thing I really appreciate about his
09:18 -  artfulness is his ability to depict the crucified Christ. You ever seen it? It looks like a shredded man, tattered. I mean just a pitiful spectacle of something so bludgeoned and whipped and beaten out of shape that he has no form, no comeliness that we should desire him. And when you think
09:39 -  that that's God hanging on the cross and that's the heart of the theology of the faith, you want to run out and shriek. Why didn't God give us something more intellectually reasonable to present to men? I remember on a train from Prague, Czechoslovakia to my next destination in that
09:58 -  land, I was in the wrong compartment and I was irritated because there were people smoking in that compartment and there was a Swedish woman with her little spoiled brat who was making a ruckus and annoyed, which I didn't like. In fact, I looked at him and we broke into a conversation.
10:17 -  She spoke English. She probably was not married. Part of the avant-garde, the advanced generation that is so characteristic of Scandinavia that has looked upon, that now looks upon marriage as a kind of inconvenience in a piece of paper, very emancipated. I said, I suppose you think that
10:33 -  he's the hope of Sweden. Why, yes, she said. I made it clear that I did not agree with her. And just as I was looking for the exit to my right side, sitting on the same seat with me,
10:52 -  I noticed a couple that had been quiet. I think they had spoken a word or two in English. And I turned to them and I said, you're Jewish, aren't you? And they gulped and said, yes, how did you know? It was only that the faintest semblance of Jewry left in Czechoslovakia,
11:11 -  probably less than four or five thousand. Well, I just knew. And we got into a conversation. She was a professor of, I don't know what, Eastern languages at Uppsala University in Sweden. And he was a professor of mathematics in his own country and a celebrated scientist. In a word,
11:31 -  they were the finest that the world can produce in terms of that which is prestigious and estimable. They were intellectual. They had it all together. They were progressive and modern and suave and smooth and all the kinds of things that men drew to be and are not. Because if anybody can be it,
11:50 -  it's a Jew. They invented it. And so we got into a conversation and they naturally wanted to know what I was about and where I was traveling and what I was doing. And I said something about Jewish mothers who are now lamenting about their son, the evangelist, who used to pride themselves
12:10 -  in their son, the doctor, their son, the lawyer, now having to contend with a new phenomenon, their son, the evangelist. And that I was in full-time Christian service and I began to share something of my testimony, how I myself came out of a left-wing radical Marxist background and
12:29 -  passed through various disillusionments as my idols crumbled and how in the time of deepest crisis and anguish of heart as a hitchhiker who took a year's leave of absence from the teaching profession when all of my world had fallen about me, how I was apprehended by a God
12:44 -  whom I was not seeking. It was a very impressive, powerful, supernatural testimony. And when I finished, this guy just kind of yawned and he had already told me that he had been spared from death in the Holocaust because he had been secreted away in a Catholic order and had
13:04 -  grown up as a Catholic and therefore he said that he had the broadest exposure to Christianity and he knew the New Testament well. And then he turned to me when I finished my testimony and said, well, he said, that's all right for you, but I don't believe in God. When he said that, a chill
13:22 -  came over me. I don't have a word to describe what was expressed in that moment. It was the spirit of the world speaking in all of its wisdom and rationality and superiority and smugness and self-assurance, but I don't believe in God. And when that wave passed over
13:44 -  me with the power and the assurance of that statement, the unction and the anointing of it, if you will, I never felt more pitiful. I never felt more weak, more beggarly, more inadequate, more foolish. I felt like some, what shall I say, some bent crumpled piece of thing
14:03 -  next to this resplendent figure who had all the marbles and all I had was this pitiful bare gospel, the foolishness of the gospel pitted against the esteem and the prestige and all of the force and invective of the world in its celebrated rationality. I never felt the gospel to be more foolish than in
14:26 -  that moment. I think it's for that reason that God has wisely said to the Jew first, because that's the hardest test. When you can, with power and authority and full conviction of the Spirit, bring the gospel to this
14:45 -  impervious and hard and self-opinionated and assured people and impress them and break through and bring them to the place of repentance and turning, you will have known what Paul celebrated. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, for it
15:03 -  is the power of God unto salvation. Many of us have not learned that because we've not had the occasion to see or to test the power of the gospel. We started with the soft touches, the bum groveling in his own vomit in the gutter, rather than the supremely successful man of the
15:24 -  world who has no need of our Christ. I recognize as a teacher, if I didn't start with the toughest problem in the class, but I chose the second echelon of problems, I would be harassed all the year long by the guys with whom I was afraid to tackle. You know what I'm talking about?
15:43 -  I'm talking about those characters in the back of the room who grimace and make faces and wisecracks and that they are as big as you and if not bigger, and you're afraid to take them on. You're afraid to test your authority before the entire class, lest you fail and be made a
16:00 -  laughing stock. So the easiest course is to sort of just not see them and pick on the second echelon that you can handle, but you'll never have order for the rest of the year. That's why God says to the Jew first. I'm saying things I didn't even plan to say, and we have never come into the
16:21 -  authority which is intrinsic to true apostolicity because we have not obeyed the order of God to the Jew first. And in that confrontation, if ever you felt weak, if ever you recognized despairingly how shameful a thing the gospel is, how absurd, how ridiculous, how ludicrous,
16:41 -  that you're going to tell men that that was very God on the cross who had come down from heaven and lay aside as a deity to be born in the form of man and to live for 30 years in obscurity, and that somehow to believe that in the blood that was shed is a purgative for our sins that somehow
17:00 -  is esteemed in the Father's sight and that there's a faith by which you can acknowledge and believe these things that constitute salvation and much more. That has got to be patent and colossal absurdity. Imagine Paul coming and the weakness that he was, both physically and in every way,
17:17 -  just as weak as I feel this morning. I felt great until I came into this room. I felt so great as a matter of fact this morning that for the first time since my return from three months of overseas, very arduous and demanding, I did my daily dozen. I did my 40 to usually 50 sit-ups with the phone
17:35 -  round and my other kinds of bends and jerks and things like that. That's how good I felt that I could afford this morning for the first time to limber up a little bit, but the moment I came into the room came the sack. My inspiration dissipated away completely. I almost forgot what the text was
17:54 -  from which I was planning to speak and when it's time for me to get up, I got up with that weariness of like a man taking his final walk to the guillotine. I think somehow that that is also intrinsic in that which is apostolic, that somehow the truest and the deepest and the richest
18:12 -  ministry that brings life is always born out of weakness. And I must imagine that Paul in his first coming to Setsalanga came in that condition, as I believe he came everywhere, in weakness, not knowing. And to be confronted by men steeped in their Greek civilization and culture,
18:34 -  to turn them from idols to serve a living and a true God must have been an accomplishment of enormous consequence, of great demonstration of power and authority, as he himself says, for the gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with
18:55 -  full conviction. Somehow I just love to play on that last phrase and let it lay like wine on the tongue. Don't be too quick to suck that down with full conviction. I know that this saying was popular where you are when you grew up as a kid, but in Brooklyn where we played stickball, it's a little
19:17 -  game we use a broom handle and a spalding ball or a tennis ball, we had the phrase, a miss is as good as a mile. You know that powerful swing can result in just a little bleep and a little pop-up or a little foul dribbling off somewhere if it misses so much as by a little.
19:36 -  It's only bye-bye baby if it's right on crack. It's that ultimate connection, something true through and through that is unspeakably joyous. It's real. It's the full thing. You don't have to watch. You know it's going. Just a sound. It's a full connection
19:57 -  and with full conviction. I'll tell you it had to be full conviction with these Greeks or it would have been a dismal flop. Not only the failure of time expended and energy expended, but it might have been the end of Paul. I don't know how amenable these pagans were to some
20:16 -  pitiful Hebrew coming along and speaking his wretched gospel. I don't know that they just would have taken him by the scruff of the neck and kicked him out of town or really done a job on him for daring to presume upon them with this foolishness. I remember speaking at City College
20:34 -  in New York, 85 percent Jewish, in the first gospel outreach in the history of that school connected to the whole New York University system. The Jews were there. I mean they made, they were the audience bristling with such an indignation. And I remember the one guy,
20:49 -  I think it was the rabbi of the Hillel organization at the school standing up with such a trembling of rage saying, how dare you come with a Gentile Bible and seek to persuade us of these medieval old wives myths. If you want to shrivel, that would be an occasion.
21:13 -  If you've not had these experiences, I commend them. Paul took the risk of having Greeks respond to him very much in the same way. And I don't know that they would treat him with the politeness of even allowing him to be escorted out of town. They might just about have mobbed him and
21:29 -  fallen upon him with their teeth and gnashed upon him and done him in. That's the risk one always takes in confronting pagans with something that is totally offensive and contradicts in every point in particular that which they esteem and value and count as wise,
21:47 -  which if they were to receive it, completely contradicts and invalidates all to which they had given their life till that moment. That's why my mother has her fingers in her ears and doesn't want to hear and doesn't want to acknowledge and doesn't want to have to consider
22:01 -  at the age of 75 a gospel which if it is true means that all that she has done and all that she has been about and all that she has celebrated, all to which she has given her energy in these years that she has counted as good in Jewish culture and Israel and all that is estimable
22:20 -  was false, a delusion, and a misspent life. It's an enormous wrench to go from idols to the living God and serve him, and the key to that wrench was Paul himself, for they themselves report about us what kind of a reception we had with you
22:42 -  and how you turn to God from idols to serve a living and true God and to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, that is Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come. What a mouthful! Do you realize that there's a whole and total theology in that one verse?
23:00 -  Do you realize that these Greeks not just accepted the issue of immediate salvation, but they took the totality of a whole Christian mindset and perspective, including the eschatology of end-time things, of that which is to come, as one whole thing and received it lock, stock, and barrel.
23:23 -  Things which we have not yet totally received, to which we have only faintly condescended with a nod, they received with depth and truth. You know why? Because they received it from him who had such entry, who delivers us from the wrath to come. They understood the judgment of God which was
23:44 -  imminent. We haven't yet understood it, because perhaps we have not had the advantage of such an apostolic penetration that comes in full conviction and not in word only. Okay, ready for the punchline? It's in the fifth verse. For our gospel, and what a gospel it is, total, including the judgment
24:08 -  which is to come, so absent from the consciousness not only of our present church, but even its leaders. For our gospel do not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit, and with full conviction, just as you know what kind of men we prove to be among you for your sake.
24:32 -  I'll tell you at the sound of that, we need all to come out of our seats and go right down crashing upon our faces. If there's a heart of the mystery of apostolicity, I think we are very close to it here. To be an apostle is not one as I have hinted, who has a briefcase full of clever things, who has
24:53 -  scoured the scriptures and has taken to himself the concepts and the teachings and the statements of the apostles of the early generation and has internalized them and now knows how to bring them out on what seems to be the appropriate occasion. What an apostle is in the last analysis is a
25:11 -  certain kind of man. I don't want to in any way give the impression that I'm disparaging what an apostle teaches. I greatly celebrate and esteem it, but what I want to say is that the teaching is the expression of what the man himself is. He's the message. He both demonstrates as well as
25:30 -  proclaims, and in this verse, Paul in his mindless and unselfconscious way sets before us the heart and the genius of that which is apostolic, which needs to be true not only of apostolic men, but apostolic churches. With full conviction, just as you know what kind of men we prove to be among
25:53 -  you, the full conviction is in exact proportion to what kind of men we prove to be among you, no more and no less. You guys with me? Are you feeling as weak as I do? As sagging as I do. This is rich stuff. I hope it's not falling to the ground.
26:15 -  The power of conviction is in exact proportion to the quality of the character of the man who brings it. That's the apostolic prescription, if I had to sum it up in a formula. Just as you know, in exact proportion as we were, the kinds of men among you, no more and no less. It was as full
26:37 -  in power in speaking as we were full in apostolic character, no more and no less. I marvel when I look down upon the audiences. I don't mean look down in any derisive way, but when I survey the men before whom I find myself speaking in the course of something like
27:02 -  a three-month journey from which I've just returned, men whose shoelaces I am not worthy to untie, I mean men of God who have lustrous records of service to God, 30, 40, sometimes 50 years of ministry, men in East Germany who are fathers of the faith, apostolic figures themselves,
27:26 -  giants, men who have been imprisoned for their faith, who have suffered for their faith, are sitting listening to me. What's my qualification? Where's my diploma? How dare I presume to be a mouthpiece for God before such men as these? I have need to hear from them.
27:46 -  And yet they listen, not with just a patience and a tolerance that you would expect of men of stature, but avidly, taking to heart all that is being spoken. And we had the great pleasure in this trip, not just seeing men receive the word in a way that we don't see it in our American experience,
28:06 -  but transact it, that it becomes event and history. I am not ashamed to say that a lot of what God performed on this recent trip in places like East Germany and France was historic. In fact, my continual prayer before God as I would come into a minister's conference where such men are
28:24 -  going to be assembled is that the Lord would give them nothing less than that which is appropriate and becoming to all that has preceded it in the history of the church in that country, so that if in East Germany what is going to come forth out of us in those days is going to be
28:40 -  exactly in keeping in the same quality and stature and kind as that which was communicated by God through Luther. And the remarkable thing is that it becomes that. Some of those messages and things were so devastating. On one occasion, the ministry ended on Saturday, it was like four days or so
29:02 -  long. On Sunday, rather than this man himself preaching, he took both services as an occasion for the entire congregation to examine the word that they had received. What has God been saying to us in these four days? We don't need to laud it over now with yet another message of our own
29:22 -  and have a quick opportunity to regain our own prestige among you, to show you that we have an ability in God equal to the brother who is just with us. But putting aside all such vain consideration, hearing that God has so solemnly and deeply
29:35 -  addressed us and that we are in so critical a place in this land and in this time, what do we understand God to be saying by what we have heard through our brother? And so the two services on Sunday were for an assessment of the word.
29:48 -  All of the elders were called up to give their impression of what they thought God to be saying, and then the whole balance of the week was a further examination of that word and its implication. And the upshot was that God set in order and performed something by which the pastor there
30:04 -  was removed from that church and brought yet to another city in a more significant place, in my estimation, where he did not want to be, which compelled the men who had only been elders of a more nominal kind to rise in a more apostolic responsibility. And you can actually just
30:21 -  feel in here the meshing of gears and the setting of things in place as something historic was actually worked as an event by the word which came forth. In a critical situation, one of the most important men in the country coming to it without any knowledge of what was to be spoken and just
30:38 -  watching the unfolding of God day by day and message by message, critical, walking on eggshells, holding your breath, lest any word be misspent or off or even the tone and the manner by which the word was being communicated. You can understand why Paul said, who is sufficient for these things?
30:57 -  Who is sufficient for this character that gives a man such entry, what kind of a reception we had with you, just as you know what kind of men we were with you? He's appealing to them by saying, you know what kind of men we were. And you know what the amazing thing is? There's not the faintest
31:18 -  smidgen of a man blowing his own horn. There's not an iota of egotism in anything that was read here in anything that was read here or anything that I expressed to you about my own experience as far as I know my own heart and spirit. And that is an apostolic distinctive.
31:33 -  There's a quality of selflessness. I use the word mindlessness, but it's likely to be misconstrued as being blah. What I mean is that there's a complete absent of self-consciousness about one's own self in God that was characteristic of Jesus who is the high priest and the apostle of
31:51 -  our confession was absent in Paul though he often begins his epistles by describing himself as an apostle called elect of God and it's absent here as you know what manner of man I was with you not a smidgen of egotism not any kind of inflatedness or puffing up just setting
32:10 -  forth what is factual and true reminding them and reminding us of what apostolic character is what manner of men lest we think that it's a matter of just having the briefcase full of appropriate things the concepts
32:31 -  I admire Paul for the man that he is the full orb and glorious man that he is just as you know what kind of men we prove to be among you for your sake that's the motive for it all not for our sake not to impress you not to show ourselves off not that you that we should receive adulation
32:55 -  from you or that you should celebrate us the whole motive for our being and for our speaking is for your sake that's an apostolic distinctive that's true selflessness and it occurs again and again
33:12 -  and again in the writings of Paul I plan to show it again tonight in yet another text you also became imitators of us and the Lord can you choke on that one that he can put the two together in one phrase you became imitators of us and the Lord is to be imitators
33:31 -  of but one thing only because to imitate us is to imitate the Lord because what we are is what the Lord himself is in his resurrection life made manifest through us us you imagine a whole church being able to say that to say to the world imitate us
33:50 -  because if you imitate us you're imitating God you want to know what God is like see us you want to know what God's character is sample ours that's an apostolic church it's not some groovy bunch of hotshots who have found a yet more scintillating vocabulary than that which is charismatic and
34:09 -  have gone to an advanced level of concepts it's a stature it's a quality of being it's a character of life imitate us and the Lord I'll tell you this is either the most heinous presumption or such a glorious statement of what is true apostolicity that you want to drown on your own drool
34:32 -  it's a statement and a model that God sets before us and the question has come up already a couple of times in these days are you trying to say that Paul is the only model wouldn't be bad if if he were there may be other expressions of what apostolicity is or what an apostle is Peter was
34:50 -  certainly different from Paul in the manner and expression and John and so on they each had distinct manner of expressing themselves but I think intrinsically and inherently and centrally they all shared this kind of character God was so involved in them and it's evident that this
35:07 -  kind of masterpiece as any kind of masterpiece is not to be formed in a day it takes time guys that's that's just what I'm trying to say but it may take less time if we consciously desire such a thing as this I think we get in the way with our false ambitions with wanting somehow to
35:29 -  appropriate the vocabulary to handle the concepts to be wheelers and dealers and think ourselves apostolic because we can move with a certain degree of facility in the phraseology far better off if you shut your mouth and made no presumption and submitted yourself to the hand of God for the
35:46 -  dealings of God and the trials of God and the workings of God that we might come to this in fact and in truth I'll tell you when Paul came to the Thessalonians they saw something there was a phenomenon that came to them an awesome thing not only one who proclaimed one who demonstrated
36:03 -  there's a quality to his life that suggested what the high priest and the apostle of our confession is they saw the gospel as well as heard it and that continues on in the second chapter I don't take the time to read all of the verses but from the fourth verse but just as we have
36:23 -  been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel so we speak not as pleasing men but God who examines our hearts for we never came with flattering speech as you know nor the pretext for greed God is witness nor did we seek glory from men either from you or from others even though as
36:40 -  apostles of Christ we might have asserted our authority but we proved to be gentle among you as a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children having thus a fond affection for you we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel but also our own lives because you've
36:54 -  become very dear to us for you recall brethren our labor and hardship how working night and day so as not to be a burden to any of you we proclaim to you the gospel of God you are a witness and so is God how devoutly and uprightly and blamelessly we behave toward you believers just as you know
37:10 -  how we were exhorting and encouraging and imploring each one of you as a father with his own children so that you may walk in a manner worthy of the God who calls you into his own kingdom and glory and for this reason we also constantly thank God that when you receive from us the word of God's
37:24 -  message you accepted it not as a word of men but for what it really is the word of God which also performs its work in you who believes I'll tell you that that one segment of scripture deserves the entire convocation's attention it's so beautiful because it's mindless because it's
37:47 -  so unselfconscious because it's so unpremeditated because it's not a man putting his best foot forward and making a statement for himself he's just reviewing with them what they know to be true in their experience with him from the beginning and because he does that we have a textbook
38:02 -  we have a statement of what is the quintessence the definitive elements of true apostolicity all the more because it's unselfconscious and it deserves our attention just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel do you have that sacred sense to be entrusted
38:18 -  with the gospel holy holy holy that this is not some cheapy thing given to us that we might have something we're with to witness to the opposite sex I remember how something in me churned and my hackles rose with that Jesus movement of the Jesus people phenomenon of
38:37 -  guys saved who still had their hair down their shoulders bare feet affecting some kind of an impersonation of Christ whose whole ministry it seemed to me was to bring the gospel over which they were so excited to the opposite sex accompanied with hugs and all the rest
38:54 -  cheapy nothing of the apostolic reverence for the gospel as the mystery of the gospel as Paul himself saw it and if we don't have this kind of respect and this kind of reverence do you think God is going to entrust us with it the very phraseology of Paul entrusted with the gospel
39:13 -  approved of God so we speak and you don't dare speak except you've come to that kind of reverence and maybe it takes being brought down into the dust on the on the road to Damascus to understand the power and the glory of it we have not been sufficiently and deeply converted ourselves by
39:30 -  the gospel my favorite statement many saved but few converted that we can that it's sacred and a reverent thing to us Paul knew its power he was saved by it himself so we speak not as pleasing men but God and this theme not as pleasing men but God again and again reoccurs in his writings
39:55 -  and I would say the deadliest cancer of modern Christianity and even its best charismatic and new testament forms is this sickly thing that pleases men the cowards that we are
40:12 -  and it's reflected in our voices in an intonation in our manner in our pastoral style in the various ways in which we become dripping and and soothing and ingratiating to men for we're afraid to offend them we're afraid to lose their esteem our own egotistical balance rests so much on the way that
40:33 -  they look upon us after we speak a message our first concern is was it received for our sake did they like it so rare to find a man who can bring the word of God objectively
40:50 -  and passionately as God's own word and even though it is not received and even though he's going to be looked upon with painful looks for bringing a word that offends yet will he not deter in expressing a single syllable because he's not in any way requiring
41:05 -  the approval or the or the applause of men that is a quintessential apostolic requirement and what shall we say being realistic we're yet so far removed from it and that's why God has to deal with us as he does to pulverize and break up and to deal with the subtleties in the inner man
41:25 -  that yet craves for the recognition and the applause and the esteem of men Paul was free of praise God men can throw dirt upon their heads and say away with him he's not fit to live and he would not so much as bat an eyelash for many of us if someone even looked at us wrongly
41:43 -  we're crushed we so much need the esteem of men so we speak not as pleasing men but God and when we shall so speak like that I think we're going to speak in the full conviction
42:00 -  that will save men from their idols and bring them to serve the living God so we never came with flattering speech never as you know with a pretext for greed God is a witness all these cutesy guys with their ingratiating manners and their little
42:17 -  witticisms to warm up the audience also reveal in my opinion the defect of wanting not only the applause of men but their finances Paul is willing to suffer the consequences of just speaking God's word even if it means that men
42:36 -  will not approve him and even it means that it'll cut him off from what would have been the benefit he would have received from them in finance and support had you come to that kind of perfect impartiality toward men knowing that God is your stay that's apostolic imagine entire
42:52 -  church like that nor did we seek glory from men either from you or from others even though as apostles of Christ we might have asserted our authority there's so little of that assertion to be found in Paul though he might have asserted it yet what characterizes Paul is pleading not
43:12 -  demanding he sought to persuade men knowing the terror of God he didn't make his case on the basis of his authority though he could have he made his case on the basis of the persuasion of the gospel itself and the anointing and the power of God by the spirit that was in his word
43:35 -  he never threw his weight around in a word he never used his title as swagger in order to move men toward some desired end if they were going to come to it they had to come to it voluntarily and willingly on the basis of the persuasion that came through the speaking of the word out
43:49 -  of his mouth in the power of the spirit in full conviction that's an apostle the meekest of men never throwing his weight around never using his title although he could have
44:07 -  but we prove to be gentle among you having a fond affection for you we will please to impart to you not only the gospel gospel but also our own lives i hardly understand what that means i haven't had frequent opportunity to observe the phenomenon
44:26 -  myself let alone to express it but i know that God desires it the gospel is not some kind of a virtual also thing that we can perform or speak it's something that has got to be so incorporated with our life that the giving out of it is the giving out of our life
44:47 -  we were well pleased to impart you not only the gospel but also our own lives no wonder it came in full conviction no wonder they were turned from idols no wonder he found a reception among them he spent himself before them almost seems to
45:05 -  contradict what our dear young brother has been saying to us in these days about taking it easy and not being burned out you get almost an implicit impression from Paul a continual spending of himself i'm not withholding of anything our giving of his own life persuading men
45:27 -  for you we call brethren our labor and hardship how working night and day so as not to be a burden to any of you we proclaim to you the gospel of God what a contrary thing to those who flipped from one holiday in to another and i remember coming down to the dining room of one
45:48 -  such holiday in where i happened also to have a room and where i looked at i was looked upon as loathsome by the men who are the principal speakers of that full gospel regional conference in fact the chiefest of them i met in the lobby and we happened to ascend the elevator together
46:06 -  and if ever i felt like a no like a nothing thing was in that elevator he didn't so much to speak a word to me but the look the disdain the oh man and what a contrast to those days and men in resplendent wardrobes full of prosperity and abounding and you know the lord had me put on
46:26 -  what does it mean or can't you dress yourself well that's how much of an idiot i am especially in ministerial times i stand before what things i have i say lord what would you have me to wear you know what you have me to wear black pants and a white shirt and i think a gray
46:43 -  cardigan i was a picture of somberness and sobriety against these flashy pastel colored and shining shoe three-piece i mean they were resplendent figures and we were a total contrast both in attire and manner and spirit
47:04 -  yeah that was the one you know and i think that there's something to this that is more than just a an outward thing of dress because Paul says working night and day so as not to be a burden
47:17 -  to any of you we proclaim to you the gospel of God i want to say that that working night and day so as not to be a burden was the proclaiming of the gospel as well as the proclaiming you understand the very extending of the self the very suffering the way the hardships the willingness to bear it
47:34 -  the the pushing of himself to the extremity the not allowing himself to be formed upon or to be treated in any very special way or to be given a holiday in treatment was itself the proclaiming of the gospel was in keeping with the character of it
47:51 -  what he was how he deported himself was the proclaiming of the gospel you are witnesses and so is God how devoutly and uprightly and blamelessly we behave to you believers you guys missed the message that i gave at the first camp which was the teen camp on
48:09 -  blamelessness and i am altogether persuaded that we have not yet come to appropriating this but we're determined that there's no alternative for us who have apostolic intention than blamelessness interesting very close upon the heels of the giving of that message to these
48:27 -  teen-ages kids to be blameless that we might present you blameless before the throne that you might with joy enter into eternity blameless we had our own little benazura community meeting you know the substance of it was those of us who were exceeding the 15 mile an hour speed limit
48:44 -  on these camp roads or uh fudging on the speed limit generally or a little sign that was in our food house that said please take from the frozen string beans before you take the canned stock off the shelf only to find that people are taking the canned stock because of course it was more
49:02 -  convenient and accessible and just in a small thing disobeying we were not guilty of any one single blatant thing though we are accused of much the benazur men go out and cavort in saloons and i've got a personal harem and in fact one woman who is in this convocation now came to me
49:20 -  tremblingly saying i was warned not to come here this is a jim jones establishment that you have a personal harem that you're a communist and that you were born in russia that got me the maddest because i was born in brooklyn
49:44 -  but you know i recognize as i have never before recognized there's only one alternative for us it is impeccable blamelessness impeccable blamelessness we cannot offend in the faintest and slightest particular and to the degree that we do we render null and void any apostolic
50:06 -  credential or authority we must be blameless for a man to say who has been with the people two three years however long it was that you know how blameless i was with you you know what manner of men i was with you and that that people are struck silent they cannot find a single occasion
50:24 -  of offense when he was not blameless that's apostolic just as you know how we were exhorting and encouraging and imploring each one of you as a father would his own children so that you may walk in a manner worthy of the God who calls you
50:42 -  into his own kingdom and glory this is very much a same piece as the reverence for the gospel that was spoken in the earlier verse as we have been improved by God to be entrusted with the gospel that you may walk in a manner worthy of God who calls you into his own kingdom and glory
51:00 -  you know what i want to suggest guys we don't have any greater reverence and respect for the gospel than we have a sense of the glory of the kingdom how can we encourage men to walk worthy of the manner when we don't know what that worthiness is when we have not a real abiding and passionate
51:18 -  sense of that kingdom and its glory i'm probing deeper and deeper to come to the heart of the heart of apostolicity and this must be it a sense of the kingdom and its glory it's not a phrase it's not some ephemeral thing that is somehow distant for Paul it was an abiding powerful
51:43 -  true ever-present conviction the kingdom and its glory because if you don't know that how can you encourage your exhortment to walk worthy of in the manner of it you say how is such a sense obtained up on the mount
52:01 -  come up and be there and i will give you the law that thou mayest teach it you're not going to get it out of your concordance or the hearing of the tapes of other men this is only something that can be communicated directly by God himself to the one whom he summons up and that's how you can
52:22 -  distinguish the truth from the false apostle a false apostle may have all of the convenient vocabulary he may know all the phrases he may have a propensity for building for laying foundations for doing expert things for setting in elders and all those kinds of things but he
52:36 -  has no sense no passionate conviction no ability to exude or to impress or to convey the glory of the kingdom may use the phrase but not fetchingly not penetratingly not powerfully because he does powerfully because he does not know it in his own experience it has not been given him you say how
52:58 -  come because it's given only to those whom God has called to the mount not to presumers who think to ascend at their own initiative is
53:15 -  even now i'm frustrated because what i'm trying to convey almost lies beyond words i love this so because Paul didn't think of what he was writing he didn't recognize what he was expressing it was so native to him it's so intrinsic was so part of his life and thought
53:33 -  and manner and being he breathed it he exuded it the last thing that he did in the apartment that he had in rome before he was beheaded was that through everyone who came to them he spoke to them of the things pertaining to the kingdom he was a kingdom man he had a view of the
53:47 -  kingdom as present possibility he was a kingdom builder he was freed from lesser kingdoms because he had a glimpses of the sense of the glory of the kingdom and if you have not that to the degree that you have it not neither are you apostolic though you have your briefcase full of
54:05 -  concepts you cannot have this as concept you can only have it as passionate and powerful experience that God himself has given you on the mount i'd much rather wait for the call to come up then i should presume in myself to be some kind of
54:24 -  who can also go through the scriptures and and take out the appropriate apostolic teachings and go about and think that i can minister in them it's worth waiting for the call it's a holy call
54:41 -  and no man can communicate this sense of glory or encourage your people to walk worthy in the manner of it who has not first received it directly from God in communion on the seventh day in the day of rest after six days wreathed in thick smoke on the mount
55:03 -  that you may walk in a manner worthy of the God who calls you into his own kingdom and glory what kind of a walking do we see slipshod haphazard raunchy casual flirtatious they're full of full of divorces and remarrying hanky-panky footsie patsy stuff fornications
55:24 -  in charismatic fellowships in new testament fellowships and even among the leaders we are not walking worthy of the manner because we have not grins to glory of the kingdom because we're not truly apostolic
55:38 -  truly apostolic and for the for this reason we also constantly thank God that when you receive from us the word of God's message you accepted it not as the word of men but for what it really is the word of God
55:58 -  how many of you guys who are sitting here would dare to be that presumptuous and to say to those who hear your message that your message is not yours but is God's own word understand what i'm saying it's not that you're not employing God's word for your message but that the message itself
56:21 -  is God's very own speaking yes it comes through your accent and through your personality but God himself is the giver of it you want to know why we're in the flabby and lousy condition that we're in because we ourselves don't believe that what we are speaking is God's own word
56:41 -  and those who come to hear us don't believe it either they're only getting a sermon and what we have is a christendom of the people who have been sermonized sunday after sunday by men whose faith is not sufficient or character to believe that what they are expressing is God's
56:56 -  own word because they are men pleasers and it very likely is not God's own word but even on the occasions when it might be men yet tremble and i'm not bold enough to say that it is God's own word and for that reason it doesn't come through with the force and conviction full
57:13 -  conviction as if it were God's own word because faith has so much to do with expectancy and because we have trained up a people through the generations not to expect that what they are hearing is God's word that they do not come to expect it and therefore they do not receive it
57:28 -  they receive good things and good sermons and three points and scriptural and sound doctrinal things but they do not receive it as the word of God which is entirely a different thing and did you notice when i read that i left out the last phrase for what it really is the word
57:45 -  of God which also performs its work in you who believe you know what i prayed for the speaking this morning there would not just be edifying or instructive but that it would perform a work you say what work i don't know it's not for me to know a desired work by him that with the word and
58:07 -  with the meaning that it conveys something will be performed in you who believe that this is not just a speaking not just a teaching or a sermonizing that God's own word do you believe that if you believe that you're a candidate for having it become a work performed in you
58:33 -  and there's some total of such works work by work is in the end to fashion such a man and such a church as the kind that we're speaking but if you do not believe that it is God's own word if you're just nodding approval to that which is correct
58:48 -  if you're just enjoying it or appreciating it or rejecting it as a sermon or as a message given of man it shall not perform in you anything this is a means by which we go from glory to glory okay Paul said i praised God constantly that when you receive from us the word of God's message
59:12 -  you accepted it not as the word of men but for what it really is Paul is not making any bones about it he's not saying oh come on guys not not me i'm just you know joe doe i did you know this is just something i've seen in the scriptures i wanted to share with you because i think it's a
59:27 -  value he himself believed it was God's own word for what it really is do you have the apostolic conviction when you go back to your fellowships and speak before them that it's God's own word for what it really is
59:45 -  do you dare uh assert to them that they need to hear it exactly in that way so that it might perform a work in them i'll tell you if we don't believe it ourselves and don't demand that kind of attention that is appropriate our people are not going to have a work performed in them
01:00:03 -  they'll hear good things but they'll not experience the word as a work that's apostolic that's the difference between charismatic and apostolic that's the difference between enjoying something and walking out and going to the ice cream parlor or having something
01:00:20 -  performed in you who believe that and if we don't believe that who bring the word of God how shall we expect it of our people who hear the word of God such believing such apostolic conviction has got to begin with us who speak the word of God and believe that it is God's own word
01:00:37 -  i believe that this morning you guys can take me out and shoot me later but i believe that this morning i'll tell you how foolish am i believe it every time i open my mouth and if i didn't believe it i wouldn't open my mouth because i'm not a speaker just to fill the
01:00:51 -  gaps in convocations or to entertain God's people or any such thing i always believe it's God's own word it's not rubbing the genie lamp and hoping against hope and there's a whole mountain of things that i can't take the time to describe that goes into the working of a messenger by which he
01:01:11 -  could come to such a conviction that is God's own word the dealings of God the crushings the breakings the mortifications the embarrassments the confrontations the cost of bringing the word through which you have passed through many years until you can come to a place of confidence that
01:01:25 -  when you're speaking you're speaking God's own word the most solemn occasions in bringing God's own word that have been most significant and historic and momentous in importance have always been attended by the same thing some guy coming up to me to tell me that i've missed the mind of
01:01:42 -  christ that i've done grievous damage to God's people that i've destroyed the unity of the body that i need to make an instant apology it's like a knife that goes into your heart because he might be right there's always the risk that he might be right that you've missed the mind of the lord
01:02:00 -  that you've done damage though you have the best well-meaning intentions and if you're not willing to live with that risk to live with that tension to live with that fear that you have to live with terrible fear and yet have confidence you're speaking God's own word you're not going to be
01:02:14 -  ministering at the apostolic level you want to play it safer and then and do things that are kosher and neat neat and nice and appropriate and solid teaching that you know is edifying and instructive okay he's not bread at that level but i think that what our people need is not so much
01:02:30 -  instruction as as event the word of God that comes to them as event as well as instruction that changes them that fits them and enables them to walk worthy in the manner of the glory of the kingdom but it needs men who speak apostolic way who have the assurance that
01:02:49 -  what they are speaking is God's own word that performs its work in you who believe that may we believe it both as speakers and as hearers and will come to the thing that God is desiring well looks like i'm ending right on time
01:03:15 -  just a little digging out in these mindless verses Paul addressing himself in a particular moment of time to a band of greek believers in thessalonica and yet what he's speaking is timeless eternal and classic although he didn't understand that he what he was doing what he's
01:03:31 -  giving us is the prescription the anatomy of apostolicity he's giving us the quintessential elements that pertain to the man as well as to the message may it excite in us such a respect for what is truly apostolic such a reverence
01:03:52 -  not to touch the mount to regard the bounds that God has said about it lest we perish to wait to be summoned up in God's own time when we have sufficiently learned from our wilderness experience i'll tell you guys if we allow this to go down the tube if this becomes a cheapie
01:04:11 -  if men are finding for themselves junior g-men badges and are the first in their neighborhoods to be an apostle and they've got the kit and the know-how and are going out and doing it we're finished there'll be no glorious kingdom let alone the people walking worthy of the manner
01:04:29 -  so i just want to end with a prayer that God will raise up such men in our generation because the church shall not exceed the men for the churches to be like the men it's the foundation lord thank you precious God Jesus
01:04:47 -  yes lord let something be born in us from this morning on let the word that was spoken this morning be an event let it perform something if nothing less let it be this that hereafter when we hear or
01:05:04 -  speak the word apostolic it shall be with such a hush such a reverence such a respect that we shall no longer speak of it blithely or gribbly or cheaply or some kind of easy thing as if we have found a passing new kind of title in a scintillating kind of thing that exceeds what
01:05:23 -  we knew charismatically my God give us a reverence and an awe for this is the very character of God the very quality of his life ripped large in men and formed into a church which is the eternal expression of his glory bless these young men there might be some here my God this morning
01:05:45 -  whom you're calling and will one day summon the mount at the time of your beckoning let them not be premature in it let them not initiate anything of themselves let them wait let them learn fully the lessons of character and life in the place where they presently are let them not rush ahead
01:06:05 -  my God lord bring this reverence and respect into our churches save us from hanky panky stuff my God raise us up as standard lord help us to attain it we pray that we might say what manner of men what kind of men we have been with you blameless may we see my God that there's only
01:06:28 -  one standard it's impeccable faultless so much beyond what we're able with man it's impossible but with God thank you lord put something into our souls that will affect our walk our attitude our demeanor our voice our character and our life i will thank you and praise you in Jesus name