What is Apostolic

00:00 -  is to begin with a paper written by Bob Gladstone, one of the teachers from the fire school that he left with us on what is apostolic. It's very fresh and an original paper, so I thought maybe to read it or read portions of it and to open that for discussion. I've got a few
00:22 -  supplementary readings on the same subject. So let's call on the Lord who is the great apostle and the high priest, prophet and king. Lord, precious God on high, the God of the beginnings. So we bow before you, my God, yet again, and look to you for the commencement
00:56 -  of these days. Thank you, you Lord, that though we are only feeling our way, you know already explicitly what is in your heart to express. And we invite you, my God, to wrap our knuckles if we are venturing into anything that is not appointed. But, and if it is Lord, to
01:19 -  give grace, to examine that very great word and to receive, my God, some illumination, understanding of what is currently being debased. So give us your free spirit, your presence, Lord, we invoke your blood upon our heads and upon this door and house, over these grounds,
01:41 -  all these people, my God, under your blood afresh. Purge even the air, my God, of anything that would thwart or inhibit, adversely affect the expression of your great heart toward us. So Lord, we are all just getting newly acquainted and there is that sense of awkwardness
02:11 -  and strangeness for those who are here for the first time. I ask in the wonderful way that you have to dissolve all of that and give us an immediate kind of entree of ease, of spirit, heart, mind and expression. That you might draw, my God, from any of us and
02:31 -  more deeply bring forth the precious treasures of the faith. Thank you, my God, for this occasion, this beginning, the day of small beginnings. Come, my God, and be the Alpha of it as you shall also be the Omega. We thank you, we give you the praise, in Jesus' name,
02:54 -  amen. Stir our hearts, Lord, to a great jealousy for those two foundational words, apostolic and prophetic, those inexhaustible words, Lord, that are under assault. And may we perceive them freshly, Lord, although we will never come to the end of the matter. They are as
03:19 -  inexhaustible as you yourself are. In fact, they are what you yourself are. So we invite, my God, the spirit of truth, illumination, the light of your life for it to shine upon our examination of these words in these days, that in such a way, my God, not only to inform
03:42 -  and to instruct, but to change us and to conform us into their very meaning. Give us the jealousy, my God, for the Church, whose foundation they represent. So we bless you, Lord, precious God, that you yourself call yourself by that name the apostle of our confession and that
04:03 -  the spirit of prophecy is the testimony of Jesus. So you have co-joined your name with those great words. So we bless you, Lord. Come and speak to us, my God, as sons and daughters without mincing words, without in any way having to baby us. In a word, my God,
04:24 -  perhaps that will be new to us, but as a statement of your earnestness and how late the hour. So we welcome, Lord, what comes from your throne. We bless you, Lord. We're weak as all get out. We're tired. We're a little banged out of shape. We're in different states
04:44 -  of being, having traveled and arrived, my God, in the condition that we're in. So we pray even the spirit of refreshing, Lord, quickening by your spirit to take the haze from our minds, Lord, and to give us an ability to enter in. Thank you, Lord. Receive our
05:02 -  gratitude for the privilege of these days and come and fulfill them as only you can. We thank you, give you praise, and we show you his holy name. Amen. Dear brothers, at a recent leadership meeting I mentioned a brief essay I sent to the Lord leading me
05:20 -  to write about the difference between the ministries of government and an apostle. Here is that paper. The difference between an apostle's ministry and government is important for our team to understand for two major reasons. First, as it has tried to do in every other
05:40 -  area of Christianity, the spirit of this age is trying to mold even the organic nature of apostolic ministry and leadership into another fad, profession, or denominational phenomenon. Feel free to raise your hand at any point you want to interrupt the reading
05:56 -  or something as quickened as this goes forth. Since we are a revolutionary movement we can't make the same mistake. Blurring the vital distinctions between the ministries of apostle and government is a simple error to make. Many ministries within the church culture
06:12 -  of the West are committing it, but God has called us to help change the system, not reproduce it in a different form. Our arrangements and language must be spiritually precise and spiritually current. So I think he is taking up the question of whether the word government is synonymous
06:30 -  with the word apostle. We always think of apostles establishing structure, government, and order, but he is the first one that I have encountered who wants to make a distinction that that kind of symmetry is not necessarily true. We must understand the nature of apostolic
06:52 -  ministry in order to discern God's will for our leadership. Remember this paper is being submitted to the headship or leadership of the revival movement of which he is part. The present topic is a sensitive issue for our team at a very critical time in our development,
07:11 -  so let me state clearly that I am not trying to assert or imply how any of us actually fits into our team's leadership arrangement, nor do I have any acts to grind. Instead, I am only trying to contribute to our foundation for future direction of growth in response
07:26 -  to some recent valuable comments within team discussion. The sovereign Lord of the church is the one who appoints his ministries as gifts to his body, and we submit to him and one another. Simply put, Paul distinguishes between an apostle and the gift of government
07:44 -  in 1 Corinthians 12, 28. He says, and God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, administrations, kinds of tongues. The word translated here as administrations is the Greek word kybanesis.
08:03 -  It originally referred to the pilot or helmsman responsible for guiding and steering a naval ship. Against this background, the ancient Greek writers typically employed that word to refer to government, so Paul used a rather striking word to describe one with powerful
08:21 -  leadership ability in the church, one of the most vivid terms in the New Testament for those who lead. Kybanesis refers to those with an extraordinary ability to motivate, administrate, oversee, and steer community members into the vision or plan given by God.
08:37 -  These gifted people work out the practical logistics of the visions seen by prophets or the architectural plans laid out by apostles. I would add, according to his sense, but they themselves are not apostles. They have a gift of administration and leadership and direction
08:57 -  that does not constitute for them that title. That raises the question, then what does? The sheer fact that Paul uses a word for government separately from apostle clearly illustrates the distinction between these two ministries to the church. Now logically an apostle must
09:15 -  demonstrate at least some governmental ability. I guess I'm thoroughly disqualified. Still Paul not only differentiates the two, he places apostles in the first position and government's seventh in a list of eight. It is not that Paul saw governing abilities as minor compared
09:31 -  to apostolic ministry. Surely the body suffers without each gift operating freely. Governmental grace helps plan out and manage the physical implication of the other ministries. Without it the body members don't always know what, when, or how to move. The issue here is that
09:48 -  Paul does not see government as foundational, here's the word, in italics, to the kind of communities he sought to plant and nurture. We cannot underestimate the importance of this last statement. There are men in the body today who claim or receive the title
10:06 -  apostle based on their ability to govern a large ministry. Sometimes these men even claim or receive the title when they themselves did not establish the ministry they oversee. Ironically these men may in fact be apostles, but they are not apostles by virtue of their
10:22 -  ability to govern. In fact I believe that there are some apostles in our culture who have not yet tapped into the unique, that unique and intangible quality that would truly make them apostles. The devil has robbed them and the church of their powerful gift
10:38 -  by substituting the more outwardly impressive ability to manage and grow a big ministry operation for the meek, subtle, and outwardly unimpressive qualities of the true apostle. Apostolic ministry is not an office, but neither is it merely a function. I put a question
10:55 -  mark after that statement. I always thought of it as an office. It is the grace inherent in a man that reproduces Jesus himself to a degree sufficient to plant and nurture genuine communities of divine habitation, love, and power. I'm going to read that one again.
11:12 -  This is after distinguishing between government, now this is the first statement on what an apostle is, whose character, to back up a little bit, is not some imposing figure who arranges and directs, but more likely meek, subtle, and outwardly unimpressive. Apostolic
11:39 -  ministry is not an office, but neither a function. It is the grace inherent in a man that reproduces Jesus himself to a degree sufficient to plant and nurture genuine communities of divine habitation, love, and power. That is an extraordinarily skillful and insightful statement. I'm reading
12:03 -  from other sources. This is C.K. Barrett, a well-known New Testament theologian writing on that subject. He says almost identically the same thing. Working at Carl Barrett, my favorite theologian, and his statement on what is apostolic ties it in always with community.
12:23 -  Communities formed by men who bear the character and the life of the Lord. They are sent ones because they represent him. The Hebrew word from which the apostolic concept was derived from men who were familiar with that Hebrew context, as Paul himself was, is shaliah,
12:45 -  who is an agent or representative sent by another, but in being sent he represents the one who sends him. Not just in the bearing of a missile or a document, but in his character of what he is in himself. He can be entrusted to represent someone else because he has come
13:04 -  to a place of such remarkable coincidence with the sender that he can aptly and lightly express him. That's why Jesus can say, if they receive you, they receive me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me. If ever there's a definition of apostolic
13:23 -  succession, I like this one. In fact, I don't know if we'll get into much of this tonight or if the Lord will even continue tomorrow. Karl Barth, one of the giants of the 20th century, very much opposes the Catholic view of apostolic succession or any kind of pyramidal
13:44 -  form by which men are designated as being in a continuum of those who have gone before them as someone who was just elected, appointed by men, and given the title and so on. That title goes on indefinitely for generations. It is different from the origin and sense
14:09 -  of apostolic as one sent representing another. So the place of the Holy Spirit in the act of sending, the reality of the Holy Spirit in shaping the one who is doing the representing is altogether having nothing to do with religious ordination or designations by men according
14:34 -  to a history of succession. That's the whole Catholic mentality and framework, but is entirely contradicted by all three sources that I have before us tonight. Maybe men would prefer some religious way of conferring titles rather than the route that can only be obtained by
14:55 -  the operation of the cross. If you're going to represent Christ and on that basis establish a community that will equally express him, how can such a phenomenon take place without the operation of the cross and the deaths and the working of the redemptive, sanctifying
15:18 -  kind that must precede one being sent. Much easier to designate men and to give them titles and have those others who inherit the titles without any spirit qualification at all. So we have two kinds of apostolic definition in collision. One is institutional, the other
15:40 -  is organic. So I love very much what Bob says here. It's worth dwelling on. We know that there were 12 apostles, men appointed and called and sent who had great responsibility in being foundational to the church. We think that there are such men now in our own generation,
16:07 -  so not every Christian is an apostle, although every Christian is sent according to the great commission, go ye into all the world and preach this gospel to every creature. So we need to distinguish between men who have an office of a foundational kind who make the communities
16:26 -  that do go possible by their own impartation and what they bring in representing the head of the church himself. We're not going to settle this in one statement. People say give me a one sentence definition. I said well, it took five days at Lausanne, Switzerland
16:46 -  to first address the subject of what is apostolic and the book on the shelf, Apostolic Foundations, has its origin at those first five days of meeting where whole messages were spent on apostolic character, apostolic proclamation, apostolic perception, the subject of eternity,
17:07 -  the principalities and powers of the air, the various aspects that constitute an apostle. We must understand them because they are foundational to the church that is itself to have such a mindset, such a corresponding ability, such an expression. So hold your question
17:31 -  that will require much discussion to begin to assess this remarkable jewel. We need to do our homework. We've been lazy and we like a little snap definition, but it's too glorious a thing to be so easily addressed. So in this one paragraph he begins to suggest, this is
17:56 -  what I like about the paper, though it starts with the issue of apostle versus government, he goes far beyond that as you'll see as we read on. And so I'm stopping at the first paragraph where he begins to make these definitions. It's not the impressive ability to manage
18:13 -  and grow a big ministry, but for the more meek, subtle and outwardly unimpressive qualities of the true apostle. So the true apostle, according to his definition, is not outwardly impressive. In fact, if he's outwardly impressive, he might well be an object of suspicion and
18:34 -  not one of qualification. So a man can be quiet and unprepossessing and yet have the distinctive character and calling and yet not have an outward administrative ability that people would admire. It is the grace inherent in a man that represents Jesus himself.
19:01 -  Pause for respectful consideration. To represent Jesus himself. Anyone can say that. It can be said of someone, but what does it in fact mean? Not the word Jesus, which anyone can tack on to anything as an appellation, as a title, but Jesus himself. What Jesus is
19:28 -  in himself is what the apostle represents and depicts. And you have to assume not as some kind of put on, not some affectation, not some external copycat imitative thing, but something in-wrought of the very life and character of the Lord himself. So we can
19:47 -  assume that such men don't grow on trees and that they are not an overnight phenomenon. And therefore we need to be jealous because the deceitful or the false thing is everywhere about us. Maybe I'll take a moment to leap into this where he talks about false apostles
20:11 -  Why are they false? Because they lack a commission from Christ himself. They were never sent. They were sent themselves. Or they were sent by some committee. Or what I'm learning, I don't even want to mention names, I have to bite my tongue each time when you think of
20:27 -  who I'm referring to. Men are now validating themselves by each other. So a prophet prophesies falsely and says God has called you to a much greater ministry than ever you have known. You're not only to be an apostle, you're to be the chief of apostles in these last days.
20:46 -  And it goes on like that. And so the man takes his mandate and commission from that prophecy. And he himself validates the prophet. And so it's a self-validating, self-confirming, self-congratulatory system. But it's a man never sent by Christ. Why? Because he cannot
21:07 -  represent him. The very fact that he's ambitious, I want so to enjoy that kind of a title and use, I would be quick to latch onto anything that justifies it, is his disqualification. Where is the quietness and the meekness and the non-visible, unimpressive qualities that
21:32 -  characterize a true apostle? His very ambition condemns him, makes him false, although not to say that tens upon tens of thousands are being impressed. So they were false apostles because they lacked the commission from Christ himself, but were or at least were acting
21:55 -  as no more than envoys of apostles. They were false because they were not pioneer missionaries, had infiltrated into churches founded by other men. And he's talking about the false apostles of Paul's own time, in order to propagate their own opinions and magnify their own persons.
22:13 -  They were false apostles above all because neither their message nor their behavior was Christian or Christ-like. They exalted themselves at the expense of their hearers and they preached another Jesus and a different gospel. How do we discern the truth from the false? It's
22:38 -  a great question because he goes on to say, even Paul could not establish his apostolic title by merely announcing it. He wouldn't even attempt. I mean, though he says, by Christ Jesus, but men had to make a decision with regard to him. So how do we discern? Maybe
23:04 -  only to the degree that we ourselves are true and have a history with truth and love truth and the Lord who is the truth has been communicated to us to the degree that we ourselves have a measure of authentic relationship with him. So that anything that purports to represent
23:24 -  Christ, but lacks the authentic quality of the one whom we have come to know, serve, admire and love, will instantly give us a check or a resistance to one making a claim. The fact that they make a claim is itself probably ground for suspicion. No man was
23:48 -  more convinced than Paul that he was an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God. This however was a proposition he could assert but never prove. Isn't that remarkable? Paul himself could not prove incontrovertibly that I'm the true thing and somehow those that he faced
24:11 -  had to make a decision out of a tension of possibilities. Maybe they were men far more impressive than he because he himself admits that he's not a slick speaker and that his presence is not at all awkwardly impressive but his epistles. So there are probably men
24:30 -  who shone far above Paul in a dress, in rhetoric, style, knowledge, maybe impressive Jewish backgrounds and the Gentiles newly come to the faith. We're having to discern who's the real one, who's the false and that's a question that's with us still so that the Church of
24:53 -  Revelation forgot which one is complimented because it is able to discern those who say they are apostles but are not. So it's evidently not only is it an issue to the end but it's a profound issue at the end because we can assume that if we give a credibility and an
25:13 -  adherence to a false prophet, apostle or prophet laying therefore a false foundation what can we expect for the superstructure that will be raised upon it. That's why the Lord maybe is wanting to sound a note like this from the very first. Think of the humility of Paul
25:32 -  knowing he's an apostle called by Jesus Christ but he cannot prove it. And it's not only that his pride is at stake or his credentials or his identity, self-esteem but he knows if he's not received as one true and one called there's going to be a vacuum filled by someone
25:52 -  who is false. So his jealousy for the Church must burn in his heart over the issue of his own acceptance and his own recognition. But that's the suffering that is intrinsic to being an apostle. One of the aspects of suffering as I can go on to read in both places here
26:12 -  that suffering is probably one of the distinctive marks of the apostle. Because after all if he represents Christ how can it not be a sufferer? And if he represents Christ in such a way as to depict and set him forth how shall the powers of the air that have crucified Christ
26:31 -  not assail him? So we can understand why men made a covenant with each other neither to eat nor drink until he was dead. And threw dirt up in the air upon their heads with the cry he's not fit to live. Isn't that remarkable? God's greatest gift to the nation and to the
26:50 -  Church is deemed by those to whom he is sent as not fit to live. Maybe all the more because he does depict and set forth Christ. And the world that is at enmity with Christ will be at enmity with him. So any so-called apostle who is living it up and most of them do living
27:11 -  it up comfortably and having quite a lifestyle of remarkable comfort and benefit and the condescensions of men even by that would indicate that something is amiss in what they purport to be. There's something about apostolic meekness and there's something about apostolic poverty.
27:35 -  I'm not talking about religious self denial like some ascetic who lives in a miserly way but poverty. The Lord himself said he had not a place to lay his head and Paul worked with his own hands and probably carried with what possessions he had with him so few as
27:59 -  they were and also talks about making many rich, being poor but making many rich. There's something to be said for poverty but if it's rightly understood and not some jaundiced, sentimentalized, falsely emulated thing. And I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about
28:23 -  all of the other apostles knew Christ in his pre-crucified life, saw him in his resurrection, were instructed by him for 40 days before his ascension on the things pertaining to the kingdom but not Paul. The one who becomes the chief of the apostles and who eclipses
28:46 -  all of those who preceded him had not their advantage in an actual personal knowledge of the Christ that they are called to depict. I've just come recently from India and was in the very city where Thomas, doubting Thomas, began his apostolic ministry in India. Whatever
29:06 -  church there is that's worth that name in that great continent today was begun by this Jewish apostle who brought the reality of Christ. Remember in his doubt, I will not believe. He had a striking demonstration. Paul had not that advantage. He had the vision
29:23 -  of the resurrected Christ to call on the road to Damascus. So it raises this question. How could Paul be the chief of the apostles when in terms of actual access to Christ, prior to his crucifixion and after was not his experience? Where did he gain his knowledge of Christ
29:46 -  that he might represent him and be sent of him to depict him to the Gentiles if he did not have the advantage of those who preceded him? That is a great question. You know why it's a great question? Because it's not only a key to the understanding of Paul, but it's
30:07 -  a key to the prospect for ourselves of coming into an apostolic reality and an apostolic character because we also have not the advantage of a history with Christ as was enjoyed by the initial apostles. So whatever was Paul's route to apostolicity and the knowledge of
30:27 -  Christ to such a degree that he could set him forth, it's also our possibility. Isn't that a remarkable thing? I think I'm repeating myself to say that our own knowledge of Christ, the truth of our own knowledge, would very much be a key in the ability to recognize
30:46 -  someone sent who represents him. There's got to be some knowledge of him by us even before the arrival of such a one. So what is our access? I'm thinking about the woman who made a remark to me in Holland who very much was in opposition to my view of Israel's last
31:09 -  days expulsion, exile, time of Jacob's trouble. She didn't want to hear that. It was too hard a word all the more because she was married to an Israeli and lived in Israel for a number of years and wanted to hear such a scenario and resisted that message until she read the
31:26 -  Holocaust book. When she read the Holocaust book, which speaks of the judgments of God in history, including the Holocaust, she was turned. She made the remark to me, I now agree with you Art. I see your perspective, but more than that, what God has showed me through
31:46 -  your book is that the God whom I had thought to worship in the name of Jesus was only Santa Claus upon whom I had put the label Jesus. Isn't that remarkable? This is not some carnal, flimsy shallow believer, a substantial woman whose own view and knowledge of the Lord had
32:11 -  to be profoundly adjusted and corrected to the point where she herself spoke that word. What is our knowledge of Christ, which is the knowledge of truth that is a critical key in our own discernment, not only of men who are true and false, but of issues that
32:29 -  are true or false? Here's a quotation from a classic work on the subject of the apostle, a German scholar called it here, that the essence of the apostolic office is based upon the certainty that one has so appropriated Christ as to represent him in one's own person
32:57 -  and in the fact that he has taken into his hands the whole life of the office bearer. That he who has taken into his whole hands is Christ. That he has the man lock, stock, and barrel. That's how an identity of such a kind is established in one's own person.
33:21 -  It's not a put on, it's not a layer of something or a clever vocabulary or some ability to handle problems and resolve difficulties. It's the very character and life of the Lord in one's own person because the Lord has taken that one the whole life of that office bearer
33:45 -  into himself. I like that. That the sending must be a personal sending by Jesus of a man who has been in personal contact with him. That the chief work of an apostle is the proclamation of a message. And the apostle acts with authority so that the message and his actions are bound
34:06 -  up with each other. That the apostle shares not only in the authority, but also in the suffering of the Lord. So catch those things. It's not just what the man says, it's what the man is. He bears an authority of the one who sends him and also reflects and makes
34:28 -  himself a candidate for the sufferings of the Lord. Paul speaks about the sufferings that need to be filled up in the body. He can offer himself as a first evidence of that process. And the number of beatings, the scars that he bears, the weight of the church and
34:50 -  all of the various things that constitute apostolic suffering. The Shaliyah principle of going back to the Hebrew word is that a man's agent is as the man himself. And the Shaliyah is that somehow there's an organic process and not a series of new administrative
35:25 -  devices. In the personal commission of the Shaliyah, the Hebrew word, to act in the person of our Lord himself, conveyed afresh to individuals in every generation, acting through other than individuals who have already personally received that commission to act in his person.
35:46 -  When they so act, he himself cannot repudiate their action for a man's representative Shaliyah is as it were himself. If you receive him, you receive me. Go back to Bob's paper. On the other hand, as I said, there are those called apostles
36:13 -  who are not apostles. They exercise the ability to govern a ministry as tremendous administrators, motivators and organizers. They are apostles to the world's point of view, but they are not apostles by divine calling. Practically, they are the heads of corporations or denominations.
36:30 -  I think that that's very insightful. I kind of agree that what I see of whiz kids and hot shot successful men in the world of religion who are being called apostles and prophets, they give the impression of being CEOs, heads of corporations. There's a business flair
36:55 -  and ability about them that Bob is touching here. Did not Jesus promptly shut down a tendency among his apostles that often identifies modern apostolic ministry? The same tendency exists among apostles and quasi-apostles today, but it goes unchecked because most of the church
37:14 -  lacks the substance, maturity, discernment, authority, meekness and presence of true apostles. We defer to CEOs and men with a business kind of flair and ability to govern a ministry because the church itself lacks the substance, the maturity, discernment, authority, meekness.
37:39 -  So it's a kind of a dog chasing its tail. We lack it to the degree that we've never had these qualities set before us by men who bear them. We have not a model of apostolic, and so when those come who have a flair and a certain kind of slick appeal, they're likely
38:01 -  to be received. So here is my appeal, Bob says. If the Lord called our team to be apostolic, to be true apostles, to train others, then let's carefully discern, define and demonstrate the real thing and help revolutionize popular structures today. Now in view of all this,
38:20 -  what is an apostle? Here I list a few essentials. I don't want to even take up the question whether any team can do what Bob is hoping for that team to do or whether it could even be a team enterprise, but the intention is understandable. Here are his definitions in
38:43 -  the answer to a brother. What is an apostle? Apostles uniquely revealed Jesus Christ. Their life and ministry, first and foremost, formed vessels for an extraordinary revelation of Jesus who is himself the chief cornerstone of the church. I like the word himself. Jesus
39:01 -  himself, not what we think him to be, not what we're encouraged to picture him to be, but what he is in himself is the issue of what God is in himself. What is God in himself authentically? Because a synonym for the word apostolic is the word authentic. If we have
39:24 -  not an authentic sense of God and of Christ, of what authenticity for anything will we have? If we don't have it at the root of reality and God and in Christ, what then can we recognize as authentic? Will we be authentic Christians? Will we be authentic saints? Will we have
39:48 -  an authentic church? Will we have authentic ministers? Will we have authentic families? Will we have authentic marriage? Will our children be authentic? Authentic is the thing in itself that is unmistakably real. So the apostle is the one who is authentically real.
40:09 -  Sets forth that reality in himself of what Christ is in himself. I can't believe that that can take place without suffering. And I know I'm not talking about external suffering. That will come because the man is that thing. But I'm talking about internal suffering.
40:30 -  I'm talking about anguish of soul, the dealings of God, the pressures of fellowship, all the weight of things. I just got a letter, maybe I'll read it tomorrow, from Israel, Avi Mizrahi from a ministry in Tel Aviv. And the poor guy, my heart went out to him. He came back
40:51 -  after a long trip overseas and the moment he returned, this was wrong, that was wrong. There was the bombing at the University of Jerusalem University. There were two drunks lying in the hallway of the entrance to their ministry place. They had hardly gotten into
41:05 -  the building. Then the neighbor came down from upstairs, the toilet had broken and was flooding the floor and coming down on their ministry place. And whose responsibility was it to repair? And imagine talking to an Israeli about this in Hebrew? And finally
41:22 -  they resolved it, then got it fixed. And they had a whole day of vexation, one after another, frustration, delay, confusion, difficulty. Poor man was stretched to breaking and he goes out, finally it's time to go home, and someone has jammed his car in between and
41:38 -  he can't even get out from the parking space. I wrote him a little note, you dear man, my heart goes out to you for your vexations. But pray for me, I'm called to New York and I'm expecting I'll be experiencing comparable vexation. So this is not an appeal for sympathy,
41:58 -  but an indication that the kind of character that represents Christ as Christ is not going to come glibly, easily or shallowly. It's going to come from those vexations. What gave to Stephen the first martyr a radiant face of an angel and being full of the spirit
42:20 -  seen in open heaven and Jesus at the right hand of the Father to such a degree that he did not feel the stones breaking upon his nose and head and the blood running into his eyes and mouth, but was full of a heart of forgiveness. Forgive them for they know not
42:36 -  what they do. Where did he get that? It didn't come in the moment of a final suffering, but I'm wanting to suggest, and I'm many times, that waiting on the tables of the widows of the Jews and the Greeks was the place where his apostolic character was formed. She got
42:57 -  more than me. You're partial to her because she's a widow of a Jerusalem Jew and I'm the widow of a Jew in exile in the Hellenistic world and you're prejudiced and you're partial. I like this, I don't like that. This is too hot, that's too cold, too little, too, poor
43:20 -  can God shape apostolic character in such attention in which you have to bear the magnanimity of Christ, patience and forbearance, sweetness of spirit and wisdom with widows. We don't know anything else about Stephen, but that he was a waiter on tables for the widows and
43:41 -  I suspect that the radiant face and the ability for martyrdom which he gloriously performed the key to Saul's subsequent conversion took place, the formation for it was in the daily vexation of having to serve table for widows. Whether it's that formula or another, I can't
44:05 -  believe that the character that shows forth Christ as he is himself can come without that kind of suffering. So I would be suspicious of any hotshot who has quickly arrived on the scene in a kind of a commanding presence and was already setting up and ordaining others
44:26 -  that is the real thing if he has not a history of that kind. What is the foundation that the apostle and the prophet constitutes for the church? Is it their knowledge, coveted though that is, their ability to lay forth the principles of God and set forth the sweeping
44:47 -  purposes of God? Precious as only they can do, but the heart of the foundation is what they convey of God as God. Because if that is not the church's foundation we can fill our heads with all kinds of remarkable end time notions and apocalyptic last days eschatological
45:08 -  sweeping vision, but at the foundation we don't know God as we want. So they communicate God in himself as he is. And I'm saying again, that's no cheap and easy school. But if only looking for effect and impressiveness or superficial ability we will be candidates for deception.
45:39 -  What happened in the moment when a zeal, zealot persecuting the church in all complete assurance of rectitude and full of swaggering self righteousness defending the ancient faith is all of a sudden arrested by a voice that cries out, Saul, Saul, whyfore persecutest thou me? The suffering
46:05 -  that takes place in that moment is indescribable. The intensity of that suffering is beyond any ability to assess because in one fell swoop the man is shown his whole life, however well meaning and well intended is a lie. And a lie of such a kind as brings him to persecute
46:25 -  not only God's own people but the Lord himself. And if you're a zealous Jew who thought always to regard God highly and to learn that even with that intention of religious righteousness you are yet a murderer of God himself, what that man experiences in that moment you wouldn't
46:46 -  want to experience it if it was drawn out over a course of a dozen years. Maybe a hundred years could not if the Lord was gracious to give it in piecemeal to touch the enormous stamp of God into a man's heart. I don't think that we can understand the ministry of Paul
47:09 -  except for that conversion that came to him in that powerful way. A complete turning of his world upside down and such a blindness in which he abided for three days, neither eating nor drinking, was nothing less than three days in the grave. And what went before
47:26 -  his eyes in those three days? Everything that he thought he understood rabbinically being the prized student of the Rabbi Gamaliel and the instruction, everything passing through contradicted by the coming of the Lord himself in himself. And speaking to Paul by name,
47:49 -  so also, did Paul obtain more in that stabbing confrontation of the Rota Damascus in the knowledge of the Lord than men who had had three and a half years with Jesus? Is the thing to be measured chronologically? Is it an issue of length of time or is it an issue of intensity
48:10 -  of communication or the impartation of God in a way that came to him with such force? Isn't that true in all of our lives? We can find Christians with the same length in faith as another and yet there can be profound difference in the quality of their life, their knowledge
48:30 -  of God, their walk, their service. What distinguishes one from the other is not the length of years but what has been obtained in that measure of time in a qualitative way as to affect character and life. Maybe this is a way, in the day of my power my people will be willing,
48:51 -  the Lord may do a last days thing of such power and penetration that we will see men touched by God out of sheer atheism and made so devoted servants of God that will shame us who have been around for a number of years. I'm already saying that. I'm meeting young
49:09 -  men, 27, a few years older than the Lord, that have a maturity and a emotion, a sense of God that shames me. They have a very short duration but in the shortness of that time is a depth of appropriation. Well, that's a good point. Are we getting not just the
49:34 -  meat off the bone but the marrow out of the bone? Are we sucking up and appropriating the depth of the riches that are available to us or are we living in a kind of a slack, nondescript way one day like another and not availing ourselves of those things that would
49:55 -  bring us into the intimate knowledge of the Lord? I like how this has come up recently in our conversations here, the phrase of Watchman Lee and I think that Oswald Chambers also uses it, an utterness toward God. The one who is an apostle is one whom God, whom the
50:15 -  Lord possesses, locks, stock and barrel. His mind, his thought, his disposition, his ambition, he has the totality of the man. There's an utterness toward God in the man. And then this thought, and you'll read it in that little book, the Napostolic Inversion, the word that
50:33 -  speaks to Saul on that. Saul, why persecutest thou me? Why do you put yourself before me? Even your religious zeal is before me. And if that's the heart of opposition to God and persecution, who of us is not guilty of it? I preached that once at Youth with a Mission
51:00 -  in Holland and because the brother who was with me was on his knees in intercession in a separate room, the power of God was so great, I had to arrest and stop a young man from taking his clothing off. People were just, their souls were so exposed they didn't know
51:19 -  what to do with themselves at the depth of the conviction that came because we were all guilty of putting something before the Lord. Why do you put you a vow before my me? And an apostle is one who has reversed it. He has put God's vow before his me, even to his
51:38 -  death. He's gone from egocentrism to feocentrism. He's a God intoxicated man, thinks, eats, drinks, breathes God, the purposes of God, the honor of God, the glory of God. He's suffused with God. And that kind of model has not been available in our time. But it's available
52:03 -  to as many as we are. When you think of the depth of the revolutionary shift that Paul is to make with regard to the Torah, to substitute as a basis for atonement and reconciliation with God, not Torah obedience to the law, but the acceptance of Christ. So that Gentiles
52:31 -  who have not a Jewish history and access to Torah can obtain a salvation that makes them sons of Abraham as well as Jews. But now Jews also will turn from Torah as a basis for redemption to this Christ. I don't have a word to describe how radical a shift that is in the theology
52:57 -  of an apostle. It is absolutely revolutionary. And that's why they said the man's not fit to live. He's contradicting in one fell swoop what we have and our fathers have believed since time immemorial that salvation comes from obedience to the law, the commandments
53:15 -  and the Torah. And here's this man in one fell swoop substituting faith in Christ for Torah obedience and taking the whole foundation out from under us that has been our distinction as Jews. That's either got to be ultimate heresy or the most radical revision of redemption
53:36 -  that has ever put before them. That issued from Paul. So both the ability to see that and the heart to communicate that knowing it's not going to be understood, knowing that it's going to exacerbate Jews and rub them raw and bring upon his own head their retribution
53:56 -  and still to proclaim it shows the depth of the conversion that had to take place in the revelation of the crucified resurrected Christ. Here's something. How quick God was to begin to establish Paul's apostolic understanding
54:14 -  of the church to which he would be a servant because I'm going to read where Bob says the whole object of the apostle is the founding of authentic communities of an apostolic kind where Christ, the reality of Christ is formed in that community. So the first experience
54:31 -  that Paul has to alleviate his blindness is the sending of an Ananias who's a lowly and ordinary believer to lay hands on Paul that he might receive his sight. So Paul learned something about the genius of the body of Christ, the interdependency of its members
54:51 -  that has not to do with overt qualifications of the kind that Paul would have admired and actually represented in Judaism. So right away his own sight and word to him of the things he must suffer for his namesake comes from a lowly member of the body. So Paul's
55:15 -  instruction in the church takes place immediately on the heels of his radical conversion. So we're having a glimpse of the anatomy of an apostle and the master craftsman preparing the vessel and preparing him long before his call because when I preach about Paul's conversion
55:38 -  I often say there's more hope for a man in error who's persuaded of his rectitude but is in error but is going someplace in his error, is in movement toward Damascus in his well-meaning intention and zeal. However wrong is a greater candidate for God than some stodgy
55:58 -  stick-in-the-mud pew sitter who has the technical qualification of the faith and can recite its credo and is a phrasiological saint but is not in motion. There's more hope for man in error in motion than one who is correct in his categories in the pew. So God's preparation
56:24 -  of Paul is long before his conversion. There's an intensity toward God even though it led to error, it's something that the Lord can appropriate and turn. So if the God can work with those things that are prior to our conversion, how much more in our conversion or after our
56:44 -  conversion if there's something that he can work with and can bless and breathe upon and cleanse, purge, sanctify and employ. You know what actually my greatest complaint about my Jewish people is? You're not serious about life. I don't tell them they're not serious
57:07 -  about God or Christ which is of course is true but the root of their problem is a lack of seriousness toward life itself. They do not esteem life and its values and the issues of truth and the issues of choice and they're sailing along in the kind of superficial comfort
57:28 -  zone pseudo reality in which they will perish. Would to God that they were vexed, would to God that they were searching their souls, scratching their chins, wondering why and wrestling with some of the apparent contradictions of this life especially as it's now coming
57:53 -  to Jews. There'd be more hope for such a one than that one who is bland and caught up at a material, sensual level or intellectual level of life as so many Jews are. He's giving the definition of an apostle and now he's talking about apostles established genuine
58:13 -  New Testament churches. They do not merely imitate and oversee ministry organizations. They have one vision to birth and nurture authentic churches. The simple qualifier authentic is important. An apostle does have the ability to build community and release ministries
58:34 -  but he does so only in terms of his deep gut insight and vision for what a real community of Messiah is. He would never compromise authenticity for growth and extension. What was true in Paul's day is true in our day. It takes apostolic vision to build genuine communities worthy
58:53 -  of bearing the name in Christ. Apostles can't just get people saved, organized and set in ministry motion. They must build local communities based on their insight into the mysteries of the kingdom, the church and Israel. We'll come back to this and Israel as a very key
59:10 -  factor in apostolic identification. They have a feel for the essential areas and how they must be worked out in daily community life. These issues are too numerous to list in a brief essay but include all matters foundational to a church worthy of God's resident presence.
59:29 -  So the ability in itself to initiate and organize people into ministries is helpful and necessary but not sufficient in itself to constitute apostolic ministry. Apostles are fathers to their churches in the truest sense of the word. They are not the CEOs of
59:45 -  big ministry corporations. They do not merely develop good relationships with their disciples in order to mentor them personally though that's a part of it. Would anyone ever define what a natural father is merely by these definitions? It goes far deeper than that.
01:00:01 -  Spiritual fathers have their churches in their blood. They go through the entire spectrum of raising their congregations as their own children, labor, birth, nourishing, infants, raising kids, teaching adolescents and experiencing their growing pains and all of that while
01:00:18 -  having by divine compulsion to depart and start other communities. Yet so strong is their bond that even when painfully absent they are powerfully present. During the pioneer and nourishing stages these fathers exemplify Christ's own life and admonish each person
01:00:36 -  with tears day and night. This is spiritual fatherhood. Out of that family history and bond comes the father's insight and ability to bring the necessary order and growth to his congregation. Government is necessary but it is not foundational. That's painful.
01:00:55 -  That's an anguish. That's a form of apostolic suffering is to father and to nurture and to bear the growing pains of children becoming sons and all of the frustration and misunderstandings and vexations and having often himself to be a fall guy or an object of instruction
01:01:26 -  by his own conduct where the Lord sets him up. I don't know how to express this. There's a certain depth of instruction for the body as the church that comes by the demonstration of the conduct of its leadership. Not in its superb ability but in its apparent failing
01:01:47 -  or allowing itself to be seen or understood as failing or in being contradictory. Yet if the issues that are born by that kind of necessary suffering are the things that culminate in the deepest character growth of saints. It creates crisis and the man in leadership
01:02:11 -  knows that it will create crisis. He cannot foresee what the resolution will be or how long it will take or if indeed it will come but he's got to be in a certain sense a fall guy. I don't know how to say that. Maybe the poorest illustration would be animals pushing
01:02:34 -  or birds pushing their young out of their nest which is a violent act necessary to have the bird stretch its own wings. There's an act of violence. There's a conduct that you would say is unbecoming to a leader or to a father. I'll give you an example where he
01:02:56 -  would avoid being overtly affectionate or demonstrative or in the sense that he would affirm that person's sense of himself and allow that sense which is idolatrous to collapse and to fail and to allow that one to be disillusioned about the man whom he thought was God's man
01:03:19 -  of faith and power. But unless that disillusionment came that believer would have been fixed in a place of immaturity in the admiration for an older man that would not serve his purposes. In order to break that power the one that's admired has got to fail before him and he's
01:03:37 -  willing to suffer that in order to release that other for the maturity that could only come in that way. You guys following me? That is fathering the church. That is apostolic suffering. That is the kind of thing that Bob is talking here that we so rarely see.
01:03:58 -  It's not glib and easy ability. It's what will promote sons at your own expense that cannot be obtained in any other way. We know that in our history here the bringing of a message you know it's going to rub the body the wrong way. You know they're going to pick
01:04:18 -  up on certain expressions that you're using that could have been alleviated if only greater pains were taken to explain yourself. That if the message had from the beginning been good and that the one who spoke it could easily have brought it as a good message. But the
01:04:36 -  Lord has so great a possession of the vessel and the vessel is willing for the suffering of humiliation and the disappointment toward others that he can be used to bring about the crisis that promotes the maturity and the growth. That is the church that is formed
01:04:56 -  in Christ. That's what this brother is talking about. This is more than the issue of the ability to organize or to structure or to bring government to a direction. Maybe the greatest act of fatherhood that would surprise us to consider it is the abandonment by the
01:05:15 -  father of Jesus at the cross. My God my God why hast thou forsaken me that in the moment of the greatest obedience of the son to the father and of the height of unspeakable anguish of body and soul the father is absent as felt presence. I don't understand that but I know
01:05:35 -  that it's not an accident it may actually be a paradigm a pattern that will later be revealed as being critical. The ability yet to be steadfast in faith and obedience without the sense of God's presence and approval may be an ultimate coming forth as a son. And
01:05:56 -  I think that if the church is to be built on the foundation of Christ something of that reality has got to be known and be demonstrated so that the leader and the father has got to abandon the sons at a time when they most covet and crave recognition, fellowship, something
01:06:18 -  like that. But he'll withhold it to serve the greater purpose of growth that will come not by the momentary encouragement that would have come by actively expressing himself as father but by withdrawing his presence. Can you understand that? Let me just read a little
01:06:43 -  bit from Barrett. The apostolic mission plunges Paul into the heart of the messianic affliction without which there is no victory for the people of God and this determines the spectacle that the apostle, the microcosm of the church presents to the world. What is generally visible
01:07:04 -  in Paul's apostleship is the sign of the cross. Thus he becomes as an apostle a fool for Christ's sake, the same sort of fool that Christ himself had been when he bore the burden of sins that were not his own and refused to prove the truth of his case by coming down from the
01:07:22 -  cross, choosing rather to die deserted, misunderstood and in despair than to betray those whose cause he had taken up. This needs to be translated in terms of the reality of the church, of the misunderstanding that a true father I think has got to bear and the issue of seeming
01:07:45 -  desertion even when God appeared to abandon him, Christ. Hence the pastoral responsibility that lets itself be trampled on to the glory of God. I'm trying to put together this insight with this insight. An apostle establishes authentic Christian community which is to say
01:08:08 -  a church that reflects and expresses the character of the Lord himself. This is a church that reflects and expresses the character of the Lord himself. And it will be done not by superb ability but by superb failing, by disappointment, by things that more promote the maturity of
01:08:37 -  the church than the encouragement that it wants in itself. If it doesn't want to be encouraged, encouragement is not the thing that best serves the purpose of the sin. If seeming abandonment is the better purpose, the apostle, the father will be willing to
01:08:59 -  bear that even though he's at disappointment and it's not understood. Because that's the model of Jesus himself who allowed himself to bear the burden of sins that were not his own, to do misunderstood. Hence the pastoral responsibility that lets itself be trampled
01:09:22 -  on. Speaks to me in a way that I'm not able to communicate and that not many of us can understand or appreciate. It contradicts what we think a model of a father ought to be, continual encouragement, patronizing pats on the back, how's it going son, a word in
01:09:42 -  season, all of that. That's not to say that there are times when that is absolutely essential, but there are critical times that have to do with the formation of character and maturity in which that would be defeating. And what is needed is not a pat on the back but a withdrawal
01:09:57 -  and a seeming absence and neglect. But it's painful not only for the son who's got to bear the disappointment, without explanation, it's painful for the father who has got to bear the affliction of withholding himself. That's the formation of a community of an
01:10:15 -  apostolic. I rest my case. It's the cross. So has this been helpful? Encouraging? We hope to do something of this kind with the word prophet. What is a prophet? What has distinguished all of the Hebrew prophets? What do they have in common with the apostles
01:10:44 -  in terms of character, devotion to the Lord, the ability to bear patent misunderstanding, rejection of their own people? So these are the two great words that need to be resuscitated. I'm happy for this brother's preliminary paper. It started out with just a distinction
01:11:05 -  between what is an apostle and what is government, but he goes into things that become increasingly deep. So I'm blessed. Shall we pray for authentic church established through authentic men formed in Christ's own image and character, in the place of hiddenness and obscurity, and sent
01:11:36 -  in the moment of the Lord's own choosing into the earth, not just to be glib manipulators, but to establish enduring expressions of the reality of the Christ that is in there. Lord, who has ever heard of such a thing? And so we are blessed, my God, for every authentic
01:12:08 -  man that has ever been sent of you and depicts and represents you, that to see him and hear him, to be in relationship with him, is to catch something of the inflection of the Christ who is in himself the real thing. For you want a church in the earth, that's the real
01:12:28 -  thing. For there are people dying for the things that are false everywhere about us. The mental institutions are full. The saloons, the cop out there, the whole flaky world is momentarily trying to assuage the frustration and despair at the feet of people who are
01:12:48 -  empty, without reality, without authentic truth. So, my God, we pray for the restoration of true prophets and true apostles and give us the capacity to discern them, my God, who will confuse us at the first if we have romantic models and images that we think such men need
01:13:12 -  to fulfill. They'll be unassuming and not have the kinds of fireworks that we think ought to accompany them, but grant, my God, the ability to discern and to encourage and to be blessed by those whom you send. Have a church, my God, for your name in the earth,
01:13:33 -  that will move Israel to jealousy. For if they know anything, even in their blindness, what is real. And they are instant in detecting more quickly than we, the flaky phonies that tell evangelists, the performers. They see right through it. They have a sense, even
01:13:52 -  in their darkness, of what is true and authentic. So, my God, raise up such a church in the earth by sent men, we pray. And may there be people travailing, my God, for the bringing forth of this exquisite phenomenon, which is nothing less nor other than what you are
01:14:11 -  in yourself. Thank you, my God. Help us to break into dimensions of the knowledge of you, where we have been slothful and neglectful, and that we might have a sense of yourself that you communicate, Lord, in the privacy of our prayer chambers in the early morning
01:14:34 -  hours, in the times of communion, times of prayer, the times of our own affliction, that we have a sense of what you in fact are. And when we meet one whom you sent, you'll know it. There's a sense of the truth. So, we bless you, Lord. Bring us of age, we pray. Thank
01:14:57 -  you for beginning as you have tonight, Friday night, Shabbat night, my God. May you somehow be the beneficiary of this night in some future time, because you have chosen to begin us with this. Continue on, Lord, we pray. Your servants are hearing. Receive our gratitude
01:15:15 -  and our praise for our privilege in these days in Jesus.